Call

GROUP ONE:

Sense 1
name, call -- (assign a specified, proper name to; "They named their son 
David"; "The new school was named after the famous Civil Rights leader")
       => label -- (assign a label to; designate with a label)

Sense 3
call -- (ascribe a quality to or give a name of a common noun that reflects a 
quality; "He called me a bastard"; "She called her children lazy and 
ungrateful")
       => label -- (assign a label to; designate with a label)

Sense 19
call -- (consider or regard as being; "I would not call her beautiful")
       => see, consider, reckon, view, regard -- (consider or deem to be; 
regard; "She views this quite differently from me"; "I consider her to be
shallow"; "I don't see the situation quite as negatively as you do")

Sense 22
address, call -- (greet, as with a prescribed form, title, or name; "He always 
addresses me with `Sir'"; "Call me Mister"; "She calls him by first name")
       => address, turn to -- (speak to; "He addressed the crowd outside the 
window")

***************************************************

GROUP TWO:

Sense 2
call, telephone, call up, phone, ring -- (get or try to get into communication 
(with someone) by telephone; "I tried to call you all night"; "Take two aspirin
and call me in the morning")
       => telecommunicate -- (communicate long-distance, as via the telephone 
or e-mail)

Sense 13
call -- (send a message or attempt to reach someone by radio, phone, etc.; make
a signal to in order to transmit a message; "Hawaii is calling!"; "A 
transmitter in Samoa was heard calling")
       => telecommunicate -- (communicate long-distance, as via the telephone 
or e-mail)

Sense 28
call -- (rouse somebody from sleep with a call; "I was called at 5 A.M. this 
morning")
       => awaken, wake, waken, rouse, wake up, arouse -- (cause to become awake
or conscious; "He was roused by the drunken men in the street"; "Please wake me
at 6 AM.")

**********************************************

GROUP THREE:

Sense 4
call, send for -- (order, request, or command to come; "She was called into the
director's office"; "Call the police!")
       => order, tell, enjoin, say -- (give instructions to or direct somebody 
to do something; "I said to him to go home"; "She ordered him to do the 
shopping"; "The mother told the child to get dressed")

Sense 7
call -- (call a meeting; invite or command to meet; "The Wannsee Conference was
called to discuss the "Final Solution"; "The new dean calls meetings every 
week")
      => request, bespeak, call for, quest -- (express the need or desire for; 
ask for; "She requested an extra bed in her room"; "She called for room 
service")

Sense 8
call -- (order or request or give a command for; "The unions called a general 
strike for Sunday")
       => order -- (make a request for something; "Order me some flowers"; 
"order a work stoppage")

Sense 9
call -- (order, summon, or request for a specific duty or activity, work, role;
"He was already called 4 times for jury duty"; "They called him to active 
military duty")
       => request -- (ask (a person) to do something: "She asked him to be here
at noon"; "I requested that she type the entire manuscript")

*************************************************

GROUP FOUR:

Sense 5
shout, shout out, cry, call, yell, scream, holler, hollo, squall -- (utter a 
sudden loud cry; "she cried with pain when the doctor inserted the needle"; "I 
yelled to her from the window but she couldn't hear me")
       => utter, emit, let out, let loose -- (express audibly; utter sounds 
(not necessarily words); "She let out a big heavy sigh"; "He uttered strange 
sounds that nobody could understand")

Sense 12
call -- (read aloud to check for omissions or absentees; "Call roll")
       => read -- (look at, interpret, and say out loud something that is 
written or printed; "The King will read the proclamation at noon")

Sense 16
call -- (utter in a loud voice or announce; "He called my name"; "The 
auctioneer called the bids")
       => utter, emit, let out, let loose -- (express audibly; utter sounds 
(not necessarily words); "She let out a big heavy sigh"; "He uttered strange 
sounds that nobody could understand")

*************************************************

GROUP FIVE:

Sense 6
visit, call in, call -- (pay a brief visit; "The mayor likes to call on some of
the prominent citizens")
       => meet, get together -- (get together socially or for a specific 
purpose)

Sense 23
call -- (make a stop in a harbour; "The ship will call in Honolulu tomorrow")
       => stop, stop over -- (interrupt a trip; "we stopped at Aunt Mary's 
house"; "they stopped for three days in Florence")

******************************************

GROUP SIX:

Sense 10
call -- (indicate a decision in regard to (sports): "call balls and strikes 
behind the plate")
       => indicate -- (to state or express briefly: "indicated his wishes in a 
letter.")

Sense 14
call -- (declare in the capacity of an umpire or referee; "call a runner out")
       => declare, adjudge, hold -- (declare to be; "She was declared 
incompetent"; " judge held that the defendant was innocent")

Sense 21
call, call off -- (give the calls (to the dancers) for a square dance)

Sense 24
bid, call -- (make a demand in card games, as for a card or a suit or a show of
hands; "He called his trump")
       => play -- (participate in games or sports; "We played hockey all 
afternoon"; "play cards"; "Pele played for the Brazilian teams in many 
important matches")

*******************************************

GROUP SEVEN:

Sense 15
call -- (utter a characteristic note or cry; "bluejays called to one another")
       => utter, emit, let out, let loose -- (express audibly; utter sounds 
(not necessarily words); "She let out a big heavy sigh"; "He uttered strange 
sounds that nobody could understand")

Sense 26
call -- (lure by imitating the characteristic call of an animal: "Call ducks")
       => entice, lure, tempt -- (provoke someone to do something through 
promises or persuasion)

*********************************************

GROUP EIGHT:

Sense 18
call -- (challenge (somebody) to make good on a statement; charge with or 
censure for an offense; "He deserves to be called on that")
       => challenge, dispute, gainsay -- (take exception to; "She challenged 
his claims")

Sense 27
call -- (challenge the sincerity or truthfulness of; "call the speaker on a 
question of fact")
       => challenge, dispute, gainsay -- (take exception to; "She challenged 
his claims")

***********************************************

GROUP NINE:

Sense 20
call, call in -- (demand payment of, as of a loan; "Call a loan")
       => demand, exact -- (claim as due or just; "The bank demanded payment of
the loan")

Sense 25
call -- (require the presentation of for redemption before maturation; "Call a 
bond")
       => ask, require, expect -- (consider obligatory; request and expect; "We
require our secretary to be on time"; "Aren't we asking too much of these 
children?" "I expect my students to arrive in time for their lessons")

**********************************************

Sense 11
call -- (stop or postpone because of adverse conditions, such as bad weather; 
"call a football game")
       => postpone, hold over, put over, table, shelve, set back, defer, remit,
put off -- (hold back to a later time; "let's postpone the exam")

**********************************************

Sense 17
predict, foretell, prognosticate, call, forebode, anticipate, promise -- (make 
a prediction about; tell in advance; "Call the outcome of an election")
       => guess, venture, hazard -- (put forward, of a guess; "I am guessing 
that the price of real estate will rise again")

**********************************************

NOTES:

I think the most important factor I used to group "call" was the semantic 
domains, but in one or two cases I also used syntax a bit.

GROUP ONE.  The senses of this group are all referential, in that they refer to
some method of identifying or referring to an individual.  This might involve 
the actual bestowing of an individual's proper name (sense 1), identifying a 
person with a particular property or quality (sense 3), making a judgment about
a person's qualities or properties (sense 19), or the act of addressing or 
greeting someone (sense 22).  The senses can of course be extended to 
non-humans, but the human sense is the most salient, I think.

GROUP TWO.  To be a member of this group, a sense had to meet one criterion: it
had to be able to used with a telephone.  The two more common senses that meet 
this criterion differ syntactically in that one is transitive, with the object 
being the desired contact (sense 2), and the other is intransitive (sense 13); 
the third sense is more specific and refers to waking someone up with a call 
(sense 28).  The telephone is not the only medium that can be used with this 
group, but it appears to be the most dominant.

GROUP THREE.  This is the "jussive" group, in that all of the senses have to do
with orders in some way.  This includes requests for attendance (sense 4), 
ordering a meeting (sense 7), ordering an action (sense 8), or ordering someone
to serve in a specific capacity (sense 9).

GROUP FOUR.  Grouped here are the sentences which refer to human vocalisation. 
Each of these senses takes a human subject.  One sense refers to general 
vocalisations, which I took in my tagging to be non-verbal (sense 5) to 
distinguish from the sense which can be quotative (sense 16); the third sense 
in the group is more specific and refers to reading something aloud and 
frequently takes "roll" as its direct object (sense 12).

GROUP FIVE.  The two senses of this group both refer to some sort of visit on 
the part of the subject; this can be humans attending to something social 
(sense 6) or boats stopping in port (sense 23).

GROUP SIX.  Semantic domain is the crucial factor with this group.  Each sense 
refers to making some decision in a recreational context, be it an athletic 
event (senses 10 and 14), a square dance (sense 21), or a card game (sense 24).

GROUP SEVEN.  If the sense involves animal vocalisations, the sense was placed 
in this group.  I have chosen to keep animals and humans separate because in 
this case I think the distinction is important.  The first sense takes animal 
subjects and its position here is obvious (sense 15); the second refers to 
imitating an animal to get it to come to you (sense 26), and is not quite as 
central a member of the group, but fits better here than with the human group.

GROUP EIGHT.  The "adversarial" senses fit into this group.  Here either the 
legitimacy or acceptability of the actions of the direct object (sense 18), or 
the sincerity of his facts, verbalisations, etc. (sense 27) are challenged.

GROUP NINE.  The final group contains the financial senses (senses 20 and 25).

SINGLETONS.  Two senses are left without a group.  The first (sense 11) amounts
to cancelling an event, and the second (sense 17) to making some sort of 
successful prediction.  I think both have links to other groups -- the first 
sense to the "jussive" group and the second to the "recreational" group -- but 
they have become specialised enough that each warrants its own category.
