Carry

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
transport, carry -- (move while supporting, either in a vehicle or in one's 
hands or on one's body; "You must carry your camping gear"; "carry the 
suitcases to the car"; "This train is carrying nuclear waste"; "These pipes 
carry waste water into the river")
       => move, displace -- (cause to move, both in a concrete and in an 
abstract sense; "Move those boxes into the corner, please"; "I'm moving my 
money to another bank"; "The director moved more responsibilities onto his new 
assistant")

Sense 16
dribble, carry -- (move, as in hockey or soccer; "Carry the ball")
       => hit -- (cause to move by striking; "hit a ball")

Sense 17
carry -- (pass on a communication: "The news was carried to every village in 
the province")
       => communicate, pass on, pass, put across -- (transmit information ; 
"Please communicate this message to all employees")

Sense 31
carry -- (propel or give impetus to; "The sudden gust of air propelled the ball
to the other side of the fence")
       => propel, impel -- (cause to move forward with force; "Steam propels 
this ship")

****************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 2
carry, pack, take -- (have with oneself; have on one's person; "She always 
takes an umbrella"; "I always carry money"; "She packs a gun when she goes into
the mountains")
       => have, feature -- (have as a feature; "This restaurant features the 
most famous chefs in France")

Sense 7
hold, bear, carry, contain -- (contain or hold; have within: "The jar carries 
wine"; "The canteen holds fresh water"; "This can contains water")
       => include -- (have as a part, be made up out of; "The list includes the
names of many famous writers")

Sense 21
carry -- (have or possess something abstract; "I carry her image in my mind's 
eye"; "I will carry the secret to my grave"; "I carry these thoughts in the 
back of my head"; "I carry a lot of life insurance")
       => have, have got, hold -- (have or possess, either in a concrete or an 
abstract sense: "She has $1,000 in the bank"; "He has got two beautiful 
daughters"; "She holds a Master's degree from Harvard")

Sense 39
bear, carry, gestate, expect -- (be pregnant with; "She is bearing his child"; 
"The are expecting another child in January"; "I am carrying his child")

****************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 3
conduct, transmit, convey, carry, channel -- (transmit or serve as the medium 
for transmission, as of sounds or images; "Sound carries well over water"; "The
airwaves carry the sound"; "Many metals conduct heat")
       => bring, convey, take -- (take something or somebody with oneself 
somewhere; "Bring me the box from the other room"; "Take these letters to the 
boss"; also metaphorical, as in "This brings me to the main point")

Sense 4
carry, convey, express -- (serve as a means for expressing something: "The 
painting of Mary carries motherly love"; "His voice carried a lot af anger")
       => communicate, intercommunicate -- (transmit thoughts or feelings; "He 
communicated his anxieties to the psychiatrist")

*******************************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 5
carry -- (bear or be able to bear the weight, pressure,or responsibility of; 
"His efforts carried the entire project"; "How many credits is this student 
carrying?"; "We carry a very large mortgage")
       => hold, support, sustain, hold up -- (be the physical support of; carry
the weight of; "The beam holds up the roof"; "He supported me with one hand
while I balanced on the beam"; "What's holding that mirror?")

Sense 20
carry -- (keep up with financial support; "The Federal Government carried the 
province for many years")
       => sustain, keep, maintain -- (supply with necessities and support: "She
alone sustained her family"; "The money will sustain our good cause"; "There's 
little to earn and many to keep")

Sense 23
carry -- (compensate for a weaker partner or member by one's own performance; 
"I resent having to carry her all the time")
       => compensate, counterbalance, even out, even off, even up -- (make up 
for, make good)

********************************************************

GROUP FIVE

Sense 6
hold, carry, bear -- (support or hold in a certain manner; "She holds her head 
high"; "He carried himself upright")

Sense 13
behave, acquit, bear, deport, conduct, comport, carry -- (behave in a certain 
manner; "She carried herself well"; "he bore himself with dignity"; "They 
conducted themselves well during these difficult times")
       => hold, carry, bear -- (support or hold in a certain manner; "She holds
her head high"; "He carried himself upright")
       => act, move -- (perform an action; "think before you act"; "We must 
move quickly")

*********************************************************

GROUP SIX

Sense 8
carry, execute -- (extend beyond reasonable limits; "carry too far"; "She 
carries her ideas to the extreme")
       => effect -- (act so as to bring about; "effect a change")

Sense 9
carry, extend -- (continue or extend; "The civil war carried into the 
neighboring province"; "The disease extended into the remote mountain 
provinces")
       => continue -- (exist over a prolonged period of time; "The bad weather 
continued for two more weeks")

**********************************************************

GROUP SEVEN

Sense 10
carry -- (be necessarily associated with or result in or involve; "This crime 
carries a penalty of five years in prison")
       => imply, involve -- (have as a necessary feature or consequence; 
entail; "This decision involves many changes")

Sense 18
carry -- (have as an inherent or characteristic feature or have as a 
consequence; "This new washer carries a two year guarantee"; "The loan carries 
a high interest rate"; "this undertaking carries many dangers"; "She carries 
her mother's genes"; "These bonds carry warrants"; "The restaurant carries an 
unusual name")
       => have, feature -- (have as a feature; "This restaurant features the 
most famous chefs in France")

Sense 25
carry -- (have on the surface or on the skin; "carry scars")
       => bear -- (have: "bear a resemblance"; "bear a signature")

************************************************************

GROUP EIGHT

Sense 11
carry -- (win in an election; "The senator carried his home state")
       => win -- (be the winner in a contest or competition; be victorious; "He
won the Gold Medal in skating"; "Our home team won"; "Win the game")

Sense 22
carry, persuade, sway -- (win approval or support for; "Carry all before one")
       => influence, act upon, work -- (have and exert influence or effect; 
"The artist's work influenced the young painter"; "She worked on her friends to
support the political candidate")

Sense 36
carry -- (secure the passage or adoption (of bills and motions); "The motion 
carried easily")
       => obtain -- (come into possession of; "How did you obtain the visa?")

Sense 26
carry -- (capture after a fight; "The troops carried the town after a brief 
fight")
       => appropriate, capture, seize, conquer, take over -- (take possession 
of without permission or take with force, as after
 a conquest or invasion; "the invaders seized the land and property of the 
inhabitants"; "The army seized the town"; "The militia captured the castle")

Sense 37
carry -- (be successful in; "She lost the game but carried the match")
       => win -- (be the winner in a contest or competition; be victorious; "He
won the Gold Medal in skating"; "Our home team won"; "Win the game")

*************************************************************

GROUP NINE

Sense 12
carry -- (include, as on a list; "How many people are carried on the payroll?")
       => include -- (consider as part of something; "I include you in the list
of culprits")

Sense 14
stock, carry, stockpile -- (have on hand; "Do you carry kerosene heaters?")
       => have, have got, hold -- (have or possess, either in a concrete or an 
abstract sense: "She has $1,000 in the bank"; "He has got two beautiful 
daughters"; "She holds a Master's degree from Harvard")

Sense 15
carry, run -- (include as the content; broadcast or publicize; "We ran the ad 
three times"; "This paper carries a restaurant review"; "All major networks 
carried the press conference")
       => circulate, circularize, circularise, distribute, disseminate, 
propagate, broadcast, spread, diffuse, disperse, pass around -- (cause to
become widely known; "spread information"; "circulate a rumor"; "broadcast the 
news")

**************************************************************

GROUP TEN

Sense 19
carry -- (be conveyed over a certain distance; "Her voice carries very well in 
this big opera house")
       => range -- (have a range; be capable of projecting over a certain 
distance, as of a gun; "This gun ranges over two miles")

Sense 34
carry -- (have a certain range, as of guns; "This rifle carries for 3,000 
feet")
       => have, feature -- (have as a feature; "This restaurant features the 
most famous chefs in France")

Sense 35
carry -- (cover a certain distance or advance beyond, as of a ball in golf; 
"The drive carried to the green")
       => travel, go, move, locomote -- (change location; move, travel, or 
proceed; "How fast does your new car go?" "We travelled from Rome to Naples by 
bus"; "The policemen went from door to door looking for the suspect";"The 
soldiers moved towards the city in an attempt to take it before night fell")

*****************************************************************

GROUP ELEVEN

Sense 27
post, carry -- (transfer (entries) from one account book to another)
       => transfer -- (move from one place to another; "transfer the data"; 
"transmit the news"; "transfer the money")

Sense 28
carry -- (transfer (a number, cipher, or remainder) to the next column or 
unit's place before or after, in addition or multiplication; "put down 5 and 
carry 2")
       => transfer, shift -- (move around; "transfer the packet from his 
trouser pockets to a pocket in his jacket")

*****************************************************************

GROUP TWELVE

Sense 30
carry -- (bear (a crop): "this land does not carry olives")
       => grow, raise, farm, produce -- (cultivate by growing; often involves 
improvements by means of agricultural techniques; "The Bordeaux region produces
great red wines"; "They produce good ham in Parma"; "We grow wheat here"; 
"We raise hogs here")

Sense 33
carry -- (sustain, as of livestock; "This land will carry ten cows to the 
acre")
       => nourish, nurture, sustain -- (provide with nourishment; "We sustaine
ourselves on bread and water"; "This kind of food is not nourishing for young 
children")

********************************************************

Sense 24
carry -- (take further or advance; "carry a cause")
       => promote, advance, boost, further, encourage -- (contribute to the 
progress or growth of; "I am promoting the use of computers in the classroom")

*********************************************************

Sense 29
carry -- (pursue a line of scent or be a bearer, as of a dog; "fetch and 
carry")
       => follow -- (to travel behind, go after, come after; "The ducklings 
followed their mother around the pond"; "Please follow the guide through the
museum")

*********************************************************

Sense 32
carry, hold -- (drink alcohol without showing ill effects; "He can hold his 
liquor"; "he had drunk more than he could carry")
       => drink, booze, fuddle -- (consume alcohol; "We were up drinking all 
night")
*********************************************************

Sense 38
carry -- (sing or play against other voices or parts; "He cannot carry a tune")
       => perform, execute, do -- (to act or perform an action; "John did the 
painting, the weeding, and he cleaned out the gutters")

*********************************************************

NOTES:

Of all of the verbs I have analysed for the purpose of grouping thus far, 
"carry" is the most interesting, the most frustrating, and the most difficult, 
because of all the verbs it provides the evidence in support of prototype 
theory.  The senses fall into vaguely three categories, but I am unable to lump
them because they are too divergent.  Even the individual senses are difficult 
to cluster because quite a few of them fit into more than one group -- but must
be excluded from that group or the other because their presence in the group 
makes the group appear random and arbitrary.  In fact, were it not for the fact
that we need these verbs grouped for practical reasons and are not engaging in 
this exercise for theoretical speculation, I would prefer to say that "carry" 
is simply "ungroupable" in the classic sense and instead represent it as a Venn
diagram, although a distressingly large percentage of verbs would be circles 
unto themselves.

I have provided a grouping of "carry."  I am not happy with it by any stretch 
of anyone's imagination, but it is the best I could do under the circumstances.
Another hypothesis would likely be equally valid -- or, in this case, equally 
INvalid.

With these caveats in mind, please take this analysis with several tablespoons 
of salt.

GROUP ONE.  Senses which involve the physical translocation of one object by 
another in some fashion are grouped here.  This includes cases in which the 
bearer is accompanying the object and probably in physical contact with it 
(sense 1), specialised sports senses involving balls and hockey pucks (sense 
16), the passage of communication, included here because it could be either 
physical or metaphorical (sense 17), and translocation in the form of 
propulsion or projection (sense 31).

GROUP TWO.  These senses have the feel of containment or inherent possession.  
This might include anything from the physical, often habitual, possession of an
object on one's person (sense 2), one object containing another within it 
(sense 7), mental forms of possession (sense 21), to pregnancy (sense 39).

GROUP THREE.  These two senses take as their subjects a medium of transmission,
either of sounds, images, or electric current (sense 3) or of the expression of
aesthetic, emotional, or metaphysical value (sense 4).

GROUP FOUR.  These senses express the ability of the subject to bear the 
responsibility of something.  This might be the ability to bear pressure (sense
5), the provision of financial support (sense 20), or compensation for weaker 
performance by another (sense 23).

GROUP FIVE.  The senses in this group have to do with personal mannerisms, 
either related to posture (sense 6) or to general deportment (sense 13).

GROUP SIX.  I am not sure how to explain this grouping, although it is actually
one of the less controversial.  It has to do with extent: either the extent to
which an action is taken (sense 8) or an actual extension of an action (sense 
9).

GROUP SEVEN.  The three senses in this group all deal with inherent features: 
necessary associations (sense 10), characteristic intrinsic features (sense 
18), or characteristic surface features, such as scars (sense 25).

GROUP EIGHT.  This group pertains to victorious or successful actions.  This 
might be winning an election (sense 11), winning support (sense 22), capturing 
after a fight (sense 26), securing the passage or adoption (sense 36), or 
generally being successful (sense 37).

GROUP NINE.  One of the more tentative groupings, this group contains senses 
that pertain to including something: on a list (sense 12), in stock (sense 14),
or in published content (sense 15).

GROUP TEN.  Another of the more tentative groupings pertains to conveying 
something over a distance.  These senses are generally intransitive, and might 
involve voices (sense 19), guns (sense 34), or swings in golf (sense 35).

GROUP ELEVEN.  These two senses are specific to the domain of accounting and 
mathematics: transfering figures from one book to another (sense 27) or 
transferring numbers in addition (sense 28).

GROUP TWELVE.  This last group is specific to farming sorts of things, and 
relates to the ability of a particular land to support a crop (sense 30) or 
livestock (sense 33).

SINGLETONS.  Four senses refused to be grouped; although some of them were 
vaguely similar to other groups, for various reasons I decided they fell 
outside even my poor grouping.  One of these involves carrying a cause (sense 
24), which might go with the eighth group, but I was unclear to its range of 
extension.  Other ungroupables were sense 29, specific to dogs and their noses;
sense 32, linked to the fifth group but too specific, concerning one's ability 
to tolerate alcohol; and sense 38, involving the ability of a voice to stay on 
key.
