Develop

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
develop -- (make something new, such as a product or a mental or artistic 
creation;"Her company developed a new kind of building material that withstands
all kinds of weather"; "They developed a new technique")
       => create -- (bring into existence; "The company was created 25 years 
ago"; "He created a new movement in painting")

Sense 2
evolve, develop -- (work out; as of a theory or an idea; "We have developed a 
new theory of evolution")
       => create by mental act, create mentally -- (create mentally and 
abstractly rather than with one's hands)

*************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 3
develop, evolve -- (acquire or build up traits or characteristics: "Children 
must develop a sense of right and wrong"; "Dave developed leadership qualities 
in his new position"; "develop a passion for painting")
       => change -- (undergo a change; become different in essence; losing 
one's or its original nature; "She changed completely as she grew older"; "The 
weather changed last night")

Sense 4
grow, develop, produce, get, acquire -- (come to have or undergo a change of 
(physical features and attributes); "He grew a beard"; The patient developed 
abdominal pains"; I got funny spots all over my body"; "Well-developed 
breasts")
       => change -- (undergo a change; become different in essence; losing 
one's or its original nature; "She changed completely as she grew older"; "The 
weather changed last night")

**************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 5
originate, arise, rise, develop, uprise, spring up, grow -- (come into 
existence; take on form or shape; "A new religious movement originated in that 
country" "a love that sprang up from friendship," "the idea for the book grew 
out of a short story"; "An interesting phenomenon uprose")
       => become -- (come into existence; "What becomes has duration")

Sense 9
develop -- (be gradually disclosed or unfolded; become manifest; "The plot 
developed slowly";)
       => happen, hap, go on, pass off, occur, pass, come about, take place -- 
(come to pass; "What is happening?"; "The meeting took place off without an 
incidence"; "Nothing occurred that seemed important")

Sense 10
develop -- (grow, progress, unfold, or evolve through a process of evolution, 
natural growth, differentiation, or a conducive environment; "A flower 
developed on the branch"; "The country developed into a mighty superpower"; 
"The embryo develops into a fetus"; "This situation has developed over a long 
time")
       => grow -- (become larger, greater, or bigger; expand or gain; "The 
problem grew too large for me"; "Her business grew fast")

Sense 14
develop, grow -- (grow emotionally or mature; "The child developed beautifully 
in her new kindergarten"; "When he spent a summer at camp, the boy grew 
noticeably and no longer showed some of his old adolescent behavior")
       => change -- (undergo a change; become different in essence; losing 
one's or its original nature; "She changed completely as she grew older"; "The 
weather changed last night")

Sense 20
break, recrudesce, develop -- (happen, as of an event; "Report the news as it 
develops"; "These political movements recrudesce from time to time")
       => happen, hap, go on, pass off, occur, pass, come about, take place -- 
(come to pass; "What is happening?"; "The meeting took place off without an 
incidence"; "Nothing occurred that seemed important")

*******************************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 6
develop -- (change the use of and make available or usable; "develop land"; 
"The country developed its natural resources")
       => better, improve, amend, ameliorate, meliorate -- (to make better; 
"The editor improved the manuscript with his changes")

Sense 7
explicate, formulate, develop -- (elaborate, as of theories and hypotheses; 
"Could you develop the ideas in your thesis")
       => speculate, theorize, theorise, conjecture, hypothesize, hypothecate, 
suppose -- (to believe especially on uncertain or tentative grounds:
"Scientists supposed that large dinosaurs lived in swamps.")

Sense 8
train, develop, prepare, educate -- (create by training and teaching; "The old 
master is training world-class violinists; "we develop the leaders for the 
future")
       => teach, learn, instruct -- (impart skills or knowledge to; "I taught 
them French"; "He instructed me in building a boat")

Sense 11
civilize, civilise, modernize, modernise, develop -- (make a country 
technologically advanced; "Many countries in Asia are now developing at a very 
fast pace"; "Viet Nam is modernizing rapidly")
       => change, alter -- (cause to change; make different; cause a 
transformation; "The advent of the automobile may have altered the growth 
pattern of the city"; "The discussion has changed my thinking about the issue")

Sense 12
develop, make grow -- (cause to grow and differentiate in ways conforming to 
its natural development; "The perfect climate here develops the grain"; "He 
developed a new kind of apple")
       => change, alter -- (cause to change; make different; cause a 
transformation; "The advent of the automobile may have altered the growth 
pattern of the city"; "The discussion has changed my thinking about the issue")

Sense 13
develop -- (generate gradually; "We must develop more potential customers"; 
"develop a market for the new mobile phone")
       => generate, bring forth -- (bring into existence; "The new manager 
generated a lot of problems"; "The computer bug generated chaos in the office")

*********************************************************

GROUP FIVE

Sense 7
explicate, formulate, develop -- (elaborate, as of theories and hypotheses; 
"Could you develop the ideas in your thesis")
       => speculate, theorize, theorise, conjecture, hypothesize, hypothecate, 
suppose -- (to believe especially on uncertain or tentative grounds:
"Scientists supposed that large dinosaurs lived in swamps.")

Sense 19
develop -- (elaborate by the unfolding of a musical idea and by the working out
of the rhythmic and harmonic changes in the theme; "develop the melody and 
change the key")
       => complicate, refine, rarify, elaborate -- (make more complex, 
intricate, or richer; "refine a design or pattern")

***********************************************************

GROUP SIX

Sense 17
develop -- (move one's chess pieces into strategically more advantageous 
positions; "Spassky developed quickly")
       => play -- (participate in games or sports; "We played hockey all 
afternoon"; "play cards"; "Pele played for the Brazilian teams in many 
important matches")

Sense 18
develop -- (move into a strategically more advantageous position, of a chess 
piece; "develop the rook")
       => play -- (participate in games or sports; "We played hockey all 
afternoon"; "play cards"; "Pele played for the Brazilian teams in many 
important matches")

************************************************************

Sense 15
develop -- (make visible by means of chemical solutions; of photographic film; 
"Please develop this roll of film for me")
       => change, alter -- (cause to change; make different; cause a 
transformation; "The advent of the automobile may have altered the growth 
pattern of the city"; "The discussion has changed my thinking about the issue")

************************************************************

Sense 16
develop -- (superimpose a three-dimensional surface on a plane without 
stretching, in geometry)
       => superimpose, superpose, lay over -- (place on top of; "can you 
superimpose the two images?")

************************************************************

Sense 21
develop -- (expand in the form of a series, in mathematics; "Develop the 
function in the following form")
       => expand -- (make bigger or wider in size, volume, or quantity; "expand
the house by adding another wing")

************************************************************

NOTES:

Interestingly, since many of the existing WordNet groups were my ideas, I 
actually de-lumped "develop" in a rather major way.  I think I did this mostly 
for semantic domains with a secondary consideration of syntax.  My approach may
well be a bit too extreme for the present purposes, but I actually rather like 
the way this verb grouped.

GROUP ONE.  I placed in this group the two "creation" senses, the first 
relating to making something concrete or artistic (sense 1) and the second to 
creating a theory or idea (sense 2).

GROUP TWO.  This group has been dramatically reduced from the WordNet grouping 
from nine senses to two senses.  The senses I chose to remain here both take a 
subject developing particular traits and characteristics in himself, whether 
these are qualities of personality (sense 3) or physical attributes of some 
sort, also including disease (sense 4).

GROUP THREE.  I did not subtract any members from this group, and in fact added
another to it.  The senses here are all intransitive and involve the agent's 
development along particular lines.  This includes genesis and subsequent 
development (sense 5), gradual disclosure (sense 9), biological development 
(sense 10), moral or personal maturation (sense 14), and the unfolding of 
events (sense 20).

GROUP FOUR.  The five senses in this group are all from the former 
"macro-group," and these have been kept together because each deals with an 
outside agent causing the object to develop in some way.  This encompasses a 
great deal of activities, including the development of land (sense 6), training
people in a specific capacity (sense 8), advancing the technological status of 
a country (sense 11), stimulating natural biological development (sense 12), 
and general generating (sense 13).

GROUP FIVE.  The key concept uniting the members of this particular group is 
explication and elaboration.  This may take the form of the elaboration of a 
hypothesis or theory in discourse (sense 7), elaboration of a musical theme (
sense 19), or expansion in mathematics (sense 21).

GROUP SIX.  These two senses are highly domain-specific: both relate to chess, 
and differ only in that the first (sense 17) is intransitive whereas the second
(sense 18) is intransitive.

SINGLETONS.  Two senses were left as singletons: sense 15, which is specific to
photography, and sense 16, which relates to geometry (I always did better in 
algebra and calculus).
