Draw

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
pull, draw, force -- (cause to move along the ground by pulling; "draw a 
wagon"; "pull a sled")
       => move, displace -- (cause to move, both in a concrete and in an 
abstract sense; "Move those boxes into the corner, please"; "I'm moving my 
money to another bank"; "The director moved more responsibilities onto his new 
assistant")

Sense 21
draw -- (move or pull so as to cover or uncover something; "draw the shades"; 
"draw the curtains")
       => close, shut -- (move so that an opening or passage is obstructed; 
make shut; "Close the door"; "shut the window")

Sense 27
pull back, draw -- (pull back the sling of (a bow); "The archers were drawing 
their bows")
       => stretch -- (pull in opposite directions; "During the Inquisition, 
the torturers would stretch their victims on a rack")

********************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 2
attract, fetch, pull, draw -- (attract or elicit; "The school attracts students
with artistic talents"; "His playing drew a crowd"; "The painting fetched more 
than a million at the auction"; "The star cast pulled many people to the box 
office")

Sense 17
draw -- (bring or lead someone to a certain action or condition; "She was drawn
to despair"; "The President refused to be drawn into delivering an ultimatum"; 
"The session was drawn to a close")
       => change, alter -- (cause to change; make different; cause a 
transformation; "The advent of the automobile may have altered the growth 
pattern of the city"; "The discussion has changed my thinking about the issue")

*********************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 3
reap, draw -- (get or derive; "He drew great benefits from his membership in 
the association")
       => derive, gain -- (obtain: "derive pleasure from one's garden")

Sense 11
draw -- (elicit responses, such as objections, criticism, applause, etc.; "The 
President's comments drew sharp criticism from the Republicans"; "The comedian 
drew a lot of laughter")
       => arouse, elicit, enkindle, kindle, evoke, fire, raise, provoke -- 
(call forth; of emotions, feelings, and responses; "arouse pity"; "raise a 
smile"; "evoke sympathy")

Sense 25
absorb, suck, imbibe, soak up, sop up, suck up, draw, take in, take up -- 
(take in, also metaphorically; "The sponge absorbs water well"; "She drew 
strength from the minister's words")

***********************************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 4
trace, draw, line, outline, describe, delineate -- (make a mark or lines on a 
surface; "draw a line"; "trace the outline of a figure in the sand")
       => mark -- (make or leave a mark on; "mark the trail so that we can find
our way back")

Sense 5
draw, make -- (make, formulate, or derive in the mind; "I draw a line here"; 
"draw a conclusion"; "draw parallels"; "make an estimate"; "What do you make 
of his remarks?")
       => create by mental act, create mentally -- (create mentally and 
abstractly rather than with one's hands)

Sense 7
draw -- (represent by making a drawing of, as with a pencil, chalk, etc. on a 
surface; "She drew an elephant"; "Draw me a horse")
       => represent, interpret -- (create an image or likeness of, in art)

Sense 9
describe, depict, draw -- (give a description of; "He drew an elaborate plan of
attack")
       => set forth, expound, exposit -- (state; "set forth one's reasons")

Sense 20
draw -- (engage in drawing; "He spent the day drawing in the garden")
       => create -- (pursue a creative activity; be engaged in a creative 
activity; "Don't disturb him--he is creating")

**************************************************************

GROUP FIVE

Sense 6
draw, pull, pull out, get out, take out -- (bring, take, or pull out of a 
container or from under a cover; "draw a weapon"; "pull out a gun"; "The mugger
pulled a knife on his victim")
       => remove, take, take away, withdraw -- (remove something concrete, as 
by lifting, pushing, taking off, etc.; or remove something abstract; "remove a 
threat"; "remove a wrapper"; "Remove the dirty dishes from the table"; "take 
the gun from your pocket"; "This machine withdraws heat from the environment")

Sense 8
draw, take out -- (take liquid out of a container or well; "She drew water from
the barrel")
       => remove, take, take away, withdraw -- (remove something concrete, as 
by lifting, pushing, taking off, etc.; or remove something abstract; "remove a 
threat"; "remove a wrapper"; "Remove the dirty dishes from the table"; "take 
the gun from your pocket"; "This machine withdraws heat from the environment")

Sense 10
draw -- (select or take in from a given group or region; "The participants in 
the experiment were drawn from a representative population")
       => choose, take, select, pick out -- (pick out, select, or choose from a
number of alternatives; "Take any one of these cards"; "Choose a good husband 
for your daughter"; "She selected a pair of shoes from among the dozen the 
salesgirl had shown her")

Sense 12
puff, drag, draw -- (suck in or take, as of air; "draw a deep breath"; draw on 
a cigarette")
       => inhale, breathe in -- (draw in air; "Inhale deeply")

Sense 14
withdraw, draw, take out, draw off -- (remove (a commodity) from (a supply 
source); "She drew $2,000 from the account"; "The doctors drew medical supplies
from the hospital's emergency bank")
       => remove, take, take away, withdraw -- (remove something concrete, as 
by lifting, pushing, taking off, etc.; or remove something abstract; "remove a 
threat"; "remove a wrapper"; "Remove the dirty dishes from the table"; "take 
the gun from your pocket"; "This machine withdraws heat from the environment")

Sense 15
draw, cast -- (choose at random; "draw a card"; "cast lots")
       => move, go -- (have a turn; make one's move in a game; "Can I go now?")

Sense 18
draw -- (cause to flow; "The nurse drew blood")
       => remove, take, take away, withdraw -- (remove something concrete, as 
by lifting, pushing, taking off, etc.; or remove something abstract; "remove a 
threat"; "remove a wrapper"; "Remove the dirty dishes from the table"; "take 
the gun from your pocket"; "This machine withdraws heat from the environment")

Sense 22
draw -- (allow a draft; "This chimney draws very well")
       => be -- (have the quality of being; (copula, used with an adjective or 
a predicate noun); "John is rich"; "This is not a good answer")

Sense 35
draw -- (cause to localize at one point; "Draw blood and pus")
       => localize, localise -- (restrict something to a particular area)

*************************************************************

GROUP SIX

Sense 26
string, thread, draw -- (thread on or as if on a string; "string pearls on a 
string"; "the child drew glass beads on a string")
       => arrange, set up -- (put into a proper or systematic order; "arrange 
the flowers in the vase")

Sense 28
guide, run, draw, pass -- (guide or pass over something; "He ran his eyes over 
her body"; "She ran her fingers along the carved figurine"; "He drew her hair 
through his fingers")

*************************************************************

GROUP SEVEN

Sense 31
draw -- (reduce the diameter of (a wire or metal rod) by pulling it through a 
die; "draw wire")
       => thin -- (make thin or thinner; "Thin the solution")

Sense 32
draw -- (steep; pass through a strainer; "draw pulp from the fruit")
       => steep, brew, infuse -- (sit or let sit in boiling water to extract 
the flavor; "the tea is brewing")

Sense 34
draw -- (flatten, stretch, or mold metal or glass, by rolling or by pulling it 
through a die or by stretching; "draw steel")
       => shape, form -- (cause to shape or form; "shape a bun"; "shape a ball 
from the dough")

**************************************************************

Sense 13
draw -- (move or go steadily or gradually; "The ship drew near the shore")
       => travel, go, move, locomote -- (change location; move, travel, or 
proceed; "How fast does your new car go?" "We travelled from Rome to Naples by 
bus"; "The policemen went from door to door looking for the suspect";"The 
soldiers moved towards the city in an attempt to take it before night fell")

**************************************************************

Sense 16
draw, get -- (in baseball: earn or achieve a base by being walked by the 
pitcher; "He drew a base on balls")
       => effect, effectuate, bring about, set up -- (cause to happen or occur;
"The scientists set up a shockwave")

**************************************************************

Sense 19
draw -- (write a legal document or paper; "The deed was drawn in the lawyer's 
office")
       => write, compose, pen, indite -- (produce a literary work; "She 
composed a poem"; "He wrote four novels")

**************************************************************

Sense 23
draw -- (require a specified depth for floating; "This boat draws 70 inches")
       => necessitate, ask, need, require, take, involve, call for, demand -- 
(require as useful, just, or proper; "It takes nerve to do what she did"; 
"success usually requires hard work"; "This job asks a lot of patience and 
skill"; "This position demands a lot of personal sacrifice"; "This dinner calls
for a spectacular dessert")

**************************************************************

Sense 24
draw, quarter, draw and quarter -- (pull (a person) apart with four horses 
tied to his extremities, so as to execute him; "in the old days, people were 
drawn and quartered for certain crimes")
       => kill -- (cause to die; put to death, usually intentionally or 
knowingly; "This man killed several people when he tried to rob a bank"; "The 
farmer killed a pig for the holidays")

**************************************************************

Sense 29
tie, draw -- (finish a game with an equal number of points, goals, etc.; "The 
teams drew a tie")
       => equal, match, equalize, equalise, equate -- (make equal, uniform, 
corresponding, or matching; "let's equalize the duties among all employees in 
this office"; "The company matched the discount policy of its competitors")

**************************************************************

Sense 30
draw -- (contract; "The material drew after it was washed in hot water")
       => change shape, change form, deform -- (assume a different shape or 
form)

**************************************************************

Sense 33
disembowel, eviscerate, draw -- (remove the entrails of; "draw a chicken")
       => remove, take, take away, withdraw -- (remove something concrete, as 
by lifting, pushing, taking off, etc.; or remove something abstract; "remove a 
threat"; "remove a wrapper"; "Remove the dirty dishes from the table"; "take 
the gun from your pocket"; "This machine withdraws heat from the environment")

**************************************************************

NOTES:

I went mostly with semantic domains on this one, with a secondary consideration
of syntax.  I ended with seven groups and eight other senses.

GROUP ONE.  Senses involving some sort of physical pulling on the direct object
were classified together: pulling along the ground (sense 1), covering or 
uncovering (sense 21), and pulling the string of a bow (sense 27).  Senses with
an added connotation of removal were not included here.

GROUP TWO.  The senses dealing with some sort of "attraction" are grouped here:
attracting crowds and the like (sense 2) and causing someone to enter a given 
state (sense 17).  Again there is no sense of removal, just straight leading.  
I would not group the second group with the first because any physical movement
in the second group is purely secondary.

GROUP THREE.  Responses are classified here.  This might be personal reactions 
to something (sense 3), critical responses to something (sense 11), or 
absorbing various things both physical and metaphorical (sense 25).  The last 
sense was put into this category because almost every time I used it as a tag, 
it was used in the metaphorical rather than the literal sense.  Were the 
metaphorical reading not more common, this would not be included in this 
particular group.

GROUP FOUR.  Drawing in an artistic sense, and the metaphors based therein, are
classified in this group.  This includes making lines on a surface (sense 4), 
drawing mental pictures and conclusions (sense 5), drawing a picture, with the
thing drawn as a direct object (sense 7), verbal descriptions (sense 9), and 
intransitive acts of drawing (sense 20).

GROUP FIVE.  All of the senses with connotations of some kind of removal are 
classified in this largest group.  These senses are taking things out of 
containers (sense 6), taking liquid specifically out of a container (sense 8), 
selecting people from a population for a survey of some sort (sense 10), 
drawing breath or on cigarettes, which seems like removing air (sense 12), 
removing a commodity from a source (sense 14), choosing a card from a deck 
(sense 15), causing something to flow, such as drawing blood (sense 18), and 
causing something to localise (sense 35).  Also included here is the "chimney" 
sense (sense 22), which I have had to include because I don't really know what 
it means, but since it is in the group in WordNet, I'm probably not qualified 
to remove it from the group.

GROUP SIX. These two senses pertain to passing over something: threading on 
string (sense 26), or generally passing over (sense 28).

GROUP SEVEN.  These three senses are grouped together because they involve 
changes of state caused by an external agent.  This includes reducing the 
diameter of wires (sense 31), straining (sense 32), and flattening (sense 34).

OTHERS.  Some of these ungrouped senses do bear relationships with other 
groups, but their peculiar syntax, argument structures, and semantics make 
including them in those groups too difficult.  Eight senses fall into this 
category: movement towards something (sense 13), walking in baseball (sense 
16), constructing legal documents (sense 19), boats needing water (sense 23), 
pulling people into pieces (sense 24), finishing a game without a winner (sense
29), contracting (sense 30), and removing entrails (sense 33).
