Dress

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
dress, get dressed -- (put on clothes; "we had to dress quickly"; "dress the 
patient"; "Can the child dress by herself?")
       => change -- (undergo a change; become different in essence; losing 
one's or its original nature; "She changed completely as she grew older"; "The 
weather changed last night")

Sense 2
dress, clothe, enclothe, garb, raiment, tog, garment, habilitate, fit out, 
apparel -- (provide with clothes or put clothes on; "Parents must feed and 
dress their child")
       => change state, turn -- (undergo a transformation or a change of 
position or action; "We turned from Socialism to Capitalism"; "The people 
turned against the President when he stole the election")

Sense 4
dress, dress up -- (dress in a certain manner; "She dresses in the latest Paris
fashion": "he dressed up in a suit and tie")
       => dress, get dressed -- (put on clothes; "we had to dress quickly"; 
"dress the patient"; "Can the child dress by herself?")

Sense 5
preen, primp, plume, dress -- (dress or groom with elaborate care; "She likes 
to dress when going to the opera")
       => dress up, fig out, fig up, deck up, gussy up, fancy up, trick up, 
deck out, trick out, prink, attire, get up, rig out, tog up, tog out, overdress
-- (put on special clothes to appear particularly appealing and attractive; 
"She never dresses up, even when she goes to the opera"; "The young girls were 
all fancied up for the party")

**************************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 6
dress, dress out -- (kill and prepare for market or consumption; "dress a 
turkey")
       => prepare -- (make suitable for eating; of foods)

Sense 8
trim, garnish, dress -- (decorate (food), as with parsley or other ornamental 
foods)
       => decorate, adorn, grace, ornament, embellish, beautify -- (make more 
attractive by adding ornament, colour, etc.; "Decorate the room for the party";
"beautify yourself for the special day")

Sense 10
dress -- (put a dressing on; "dress the salads")
       => put on, apply -- (apply to a surface: "She applied paint to the back 
of the house"; "Put on make-up!")

**************************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 9
dress, decorate -- (provide with decoration; "dress the windows")
       => arrange, set up -- (put into a proper or systematic order; "arrange 
the flowers in the vase")

Sense 11
snip, clip, crop, trim, lop, dress, prune, cut back -- (cultivate, tend, and 
cut back the growth of "dress the plants in the garden")
       => thin out -- (make sparse; "thin out the young plants")

Sense 14
dress, groom, curry -- (give a neat appearance to; "groom the dogs"; "dress the
horses")
       => beautify, embellish, prettify -- (make more beautiful)

Sense 15
dress, arrange, set, do, coif, coiffe, coiffure -- (arrange attractively; 
"dress my hair for the wedding")
       => groom, neaten -- (care for the external appearance)

**************************************************************

Sense 3
dress -- (put a finish on; "dress the surface smooth")
       => finish -- (provide with a finish, as of furniture, for example)

**************************************************************

Sense 7
dress, line up -- (arrange in ranks; "dress troops")
       => position -- (cause to be in an appropriate place, state, or relation)

**************************************************************

Sense 12
dress -- (convert into leather; "dress the tanned skins")
       => convert, change over -- (change from one system to another or to a 
new plan or policy; "We converted from 220 to 110 Volt")

**************************************************************

Sense 13
dress -- (apply a bandage or medication to; "dress the victim's wounds")
       => treat, care for -- (provide treatment for; "The doctor treated my 
broken leg"; "The nurses cared for the bomb victims"; "The patient must be 
treated right away or she will die"; "Treat the infection with antibiotics")

**************************************************************

NOTES:  I made very few modifications to the extant WordNet groupings, because on the whole I found the existing groups quite satisfactory.

GROUP ONE.  The "donning of clothing" senses are all classified here: intransitive putting on of clothes (sense 1), providing clothing to a direct object (sense 2), dressing in a particular manner (sense 4), and dressing up (sense 5).

GROUP TWO.  Food preparation senses all belong here: killing and preparing meat (sense 6), decorating with ornamental food (sense 8), and putting dressing on salads (sense 10).

GROUP THREE.  My only changes to "dress" are in this group, which contains all of the senses relating to making something aesthetically pleasing and finished in some way.  That includes general decorating (sense 9), gardening (sense 11), grooming an animal (sense 14), and fixing someone's hair (sense 15).

OTHERS.  Four senses were not grouped.  I was unsure of the exact extension of sense 3, which may actually belong in the third group.  The other three singletons were the arranging of military troops in their ranks (sense (7), making leather (sense 12), and administering medical treatment (sense 13).
