Drift

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
float, drift, be adrift, blow -- (be in motion due to some air or water 
current; "The leaves were blowing in the wind"; "the boat drifted on the lake";
"The sailboat was adrift on the open sea"; "the shipwrecked boat drifted away 
from the shore")
       => travel, go, move, locomote -- (change location; move, travel, or 
proceed; "How fast does your new car go?" "We travelled from Rome to Naples by 
bus"; "The policemen went from door to door looking for the suspect";"The 
soldiers moved towards the city in an attempt to take it before night fell")

Sense 7
drift -- (cause to be carried by a current; "drift the boats downstream")
       => float -- (set afloat; "He floated the logs down the river"; "The boy 
floated his toy boat on the pond")

******************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 2
stray, err, drift -- (wander from a direct course or at random; "The child 
strayed from the path and her parents lost sight of her"; "don't drift from the
set course")
       => travel, go, move, locomote -- (change location; move, travel, or 
proceed; "How fast does your new car go?" "We travelled from Rome to Naples by 
bus"; "The policemen went from door to door looking for the suspect";"The 
soldiers moved towards the city in an attempt to take it before night fell")

Sense 3
wander, swan, stray, tramp, roam, cast, ramble, rove, range, drift, vagabond --
(move about aimlessly or without any destination, often in search of food or 
employment; "The gypsies roamed the woods"; "roving vagabonds"; "the wandering 
Jew"; "The cattle roam across the prairie"; "the laborers drift from one town 
to the next")
       => travel, go, move, locomote -- (change location; move, travel, or 
proceed; "How fast does your new car go?" "We travelled from Rome to Naples by 
bus"; "The policemen went from door to door looking for the suspect";"The 
soldiers moved towards the city in an attempt to take it before night fell")

*********************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 4
drift -- (vary or move from a fixed point or course; "stock prices are drifting
higher")
       => vary -- (be subject to change: "Prices vary")

Sense 9
drift -- (be subject to fluctuation; "The stock market drifted upward")
       => change -- (undergo a change; become different in essence; losing 
one's or its original nature; "She changed completely as she grew older"; "The 
weather changed last night")

*********************************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 5
freewheel, drift -- (live unhurriedly, irresponsibly, or freely; "My son 
drifted around for years in California before going to law school")
       => exist, survive, live, subsist -- (support oneself; "he could barely 
exist on such a low wage"; "Can you live on $2000 a month in New York City?"; 
"Many people in the world have to subsist on $1 a day")

Sense 6
drift -- (move in an unhurried fashion; "The unknown young man drifted among 
the invited guests")
       => circulate -- (move around freely; "She circulates among royalty")

***********************************************************

Sense 8
drift -- (drive slowly and far afield for grazing; "drift the cattle herds 
westwards")
       => crop, graze, pasture -- (let (animals) feed in a field or pasture or 
meadow)

************************************************************

Sense 10
drift -- (be piled up in banks or heaps by the force of wind or a current; 
"snow drifting several feet high"; "sand drifting like snow")
       => accumulate, cumulate, conglomerate, pile up, gather, amass -- 
(collect or gather; "Journals are accumulating in my office"; "The work keeps 
piling up")

************************************************************

NOTES:

This grouping is identical with the groupings in WordNet and may be summarised 
as follows: the first group contains the senses pertaining to movement by 
current: intransitive (sense 1) or causative (sense 7); the second group is the
senses related to straying from a course, either generally (sense 2) or in 
search of sustenance (sense 3); the third group encompasses variation, be it 
fluctuation (sense 4) or simple deviation (sense 9); and the fourth group has a
component of indolence, whether in lifestyles (sense 5) or social circulation 
(sense 6).  Two senses are not grouped: sense 8 refers to driving cattle for 
grazing and sense 10 to the accumulation of piles of snow or sand or the like.
