Face

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
confront, face up, face -- (deal with (something unpleasant) head on; "You must
confront your problems"; "He faced the terrible consequences of his mistakes")
       => set about, go about, approach -- (begin to deal with; "approach a 
task"; "go about a difficult problem"; "appraoch a new project")

Sense 2
confront, face -- (oppose, as in hostility or a competition; "You must confront
your opponent"; "Jackson faced Smith in the boxing ring"; "The two enemies 
finally confronted each other")
       => meet, encounter, play, take on -- (contend against an opponent in a 
sport, game, or battle; "Princeton plays Yale this weekend"; "Charlie likes to 
play Mary")

Sense 6
confront, face, present -- (present somebody with something, usually to accuse 
or criticize; ""We confronted him with the evidence"; "He was faced with all 
the evidence and could no longer deny his actions"; An enormous dilemma faces 
us")

*************************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 3
front, look, face -- (face in a certain direction, often with respect to 
another reference point; be opposite to; "The house looks north"; "My backyard 
look onto the pond"; "The building faces the park")
       => lie -- (be located or situated somewhere; occupy a certain position)

Sense 4
face -- (be opposite; "the facing page"; "the two sofas face each other")
       => be -- (occupy a certain position or area; be somewhere; "Where is my 
umbrella?" "The toolshed is in the back"; also for abstract situations and 
relations: "What is behind this behavior?")

*************************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 5
face -- (turn so as to face; turn the face in a certain direction; "Turn and 
face your partner now")
       => turn -- (change orientation or direction, also in the abstract sense;
"Turn towards me"; "The mugger turned and fled before I could see his face"; 
"She turned from herself and learned to listen to others' needs")

Sense 7
face -- (turn so as to expose the face; "face a playing card")
       => disclose, expose -- (disclose to view as by removing a cover; "The 
curtain rose to disclose a stunning set")

*************************************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 8
face -- (line the edge (of a garment) with a different material; "face the 
lapels of the jacket")
       => line -- (cover the interior of, as of garments: "line the gloves")

Sense 9
face -- (cover the front or surface of: "The building was faced with beautiful 
stones")
       => cover -- (provide with a covering or cause to be covered; "cover her 
face with a handkerchief"; "cover the child with a blanket"; cover the grave 
with flowers")

*************************************************************

NOTES:

Again, I made only one change to the current picture of groupings in WordNet.  
Notice that this time, I managed to group all of the senses (a significant 

achievement for a Dicer!).

GROUP ONE.  The senses in this group are all adversarial.  Two of them differ 
only syntactically, whether the subject is the person being confronted (sense 
1)or the thing doing the confronting (sense 6).  Also included in this group is
the more specific sense of opposing in competition (sense 2).

GROUP TWO.  Stative senses are contained in this group: facing in a certain 
direction (sense 3) or simply being opposite (sense 4).

GROUP THREE.  This group differs from the second group in that motion is 
involved: the subject turns himself (sense 5) or something else (sense 7) 
before the "facing" occurs.

GROUP FOUR.  These two senses are specific to materials lining an object.  One 
sense is specific to garments (sense 8) and the other is more general but 
especially includes buildings (sense 9).