Find

GROUP ONE

Sense 2
detect, observe, find, discover, notice -- (discover or determine the 
existence, presence, or fact of; "She detected high levels of lead in her 
drinking water"; "We found traces of lead in the paint")
       => sight -- (catch sight of; to perceive with the eyes: "caught sight of
the kings men coming over the ridge.")

Sense 4
determine, find, find out, ascertain -- (after a calculation, investigation, 
experiment, survey, or study; "find the product of two numbers"; "The 
physicist who found the elusive particle won the Nobel Prize")

Sense 8
discover, find -- (make a discovery, make a new finding; "Roentgen discovered 
X-rays"; "Physicists believe they found a new elementary particle")
       => conceive, conceptualize, conceptualise -- (have the idea for; "He 
conceived of a robot that would help paralyzed patients"; "This library was 
well conceived")

Sense 9
discover, find -- (make a discovery; "She found that he had lied to her"; "The 
story is false, so far as I can discover")
       => learn, hear, get word, get wind, pick up, find out, get a line, 
discover, see -- (get to know or become aware of, usually accidentally; "I 
learned that she has two grown-up children"; "I see that you have been 
promoted")

*********************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 3
find, regain -- (come upon after searching; find the location of something that
was missed or lost; "Did you find your glasses?" "I cannot find my gloves!")
       => get, acquire -- (come into the possession of something concrete or 
abstract; "She got a lot of paintings from her uncle"; "They acquired a new 
pet"; "Get your results the next day"; "Get permission to take a few days off 
from work")


Sense 7
line up, get hold, come up, find -- (get something or somebody for a specific 
purpose; "I found this gadget that will serve as a bottle opener"; "I got hold 
of these tools to fix our plumbing"; "The chairman got hold of a secretary on 
Friday night to type the urgent letter")
       => get, acquire -- (come into the possession of something concrete or 
abstract; "She got a lot of paintings from her uncle"; "They acquired a new 
pet"; "Get your results the next day"; "Get permission to take a few days off 
from work")

Sense 10
find -- (obtain through effort or management; "She found the time and energy to
take care of her aging parents"; "We found the money to send our sons to 
college")
       => get, acquire -- (come into the possession of something concrete or 
abstract; "She got a lot of paintings from her uncle"; "They acquired a new 
pet"; "Get your results the next day"; "Get permission to take a few days off 
from work")

Sense 14
recover, retrieve, find, regain -- (get or find back; recover the use of; "She 
regained control of herself"; "She found her voice and replied quickly")
       => get, acquire -- (come into the possession of something concrete or 
abstract; "She got a lot of paintings from her uncle"; "They acquired a new 
pet"; "Get your results the next day"; "Get permission to take a few days off 
from work")

*********************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 5
find, feel -- (come to believe on the basis of emotion, intuitions, or 
indefinite grounds: "I feel that he doesn't like me"; "I find him to be 
obnoxious"; "I found the movie rather entertaining")
       => conclude -- (bring to a close; "The committee concluded the meeting")

Sense 11
rule, find -- (decide on and make a declaration about; "find someone guilty")
       => pronounce, label, judge -- (pronounce judgment on; "They labeled him 
unfit to work here")

*********************************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 6
witness, find, see -- (perceive with any or all of one's senses; "We found 
Republicans winning the offices"; "You'll see a lot of cheating in this 
school"; give rise to or be characterized by; "The 1960 saw the rebellion of 
the younger generation against established traditions"; "I want to see 
results")
       => experience, undergo, see, go through -- (go or live through; "We had 
many trials to go through"; "he saw action in Viet Nam")

Sense 13
find -- (perceive oneself to be in a certain condition or place; "I found 
myself in a difficult situation"; "When he woke up, he found himself in a 
hospital room")
       => perceive, comprehend -- (to become aware of through the senses; "I 
could perceive the ship coming over the horizon")

*********************************************************

Sense 1
find, happen, chance, bump, encounter -- (come upon, as if by accident; meet 
with; "We find this idea in Plato"; "I happened upon the most wonderful bakery
not very far from here"; "She chanced upon an interesting book in the bookstore
the other day")

*********************************************************

Sense 12
receive, get, find, obtain, incur -- (receive a specified treatment (abstract);
"These aspects of civilization do not find expression or receive an 
interpretation"; "His movie received a good review"; "I got nothing but trouble
for my good intentions")
       => change -- (undergo a change; become different in essence; losing 
one's or its original nature; "She changed completely as she grew older"; "The 
weather changed last night")

*********************************************************

Sense 15
find -- (succeed in reaching; arrive at; "The arrrow found its mark")
       => reach, attain, make, hit, arrive at, gain -- (reach a destination, 
either real or abstract; "We hit Detroit by noon"; "The water reached the 
doorstep"; "We barely made the plane"; "I have to hit the MAC machine before 
the weekend starts")

*********************************************************

Sense 16
find oneself, find -- (accept and make use of one's personality, abilities, and
situation; "My son went to Berkeley to find himself")
       => mature, maturate, grow -- (develop and reach maturity; undergo 
maturation; "He matured fast"; "The child grew fast")

*********************************************************

NOTES:

I actually found (sorry!) that I was quite satisfied with "find" as it appeared
in WordNet.  I made only one minor change, adding one previously ungrouped 
sense to a group.

GROUP ONE.  Membership in this category was determined by whether or not the 
object found was a specific fact, rather than a general impression, and that 
the subject (usually human?) is using its cognitive abilities to some extent.  
Some of the differences between the senses appear primarily syntactic.  One 
sense, referring to the discovery of a situation or state of affairs, takes the
item discovered as a direct object (sense 2), and this seems to be the only 
apparent difference from another sense that takes a that-clause adjunct (sense 
9).  Of the remaining two senses, one refers to making a discovery within a 
specific sphere of activity such as an investigation or calculation (sense 4), 
and the other refers to making a new discovery in more general terms (sense 8).

GROUP TWO.  In contrast to the first group, in the second group the discovery 
is more concrete: what is discovered is an item or a person or something else 
quite specific, and furthermore the search existed because of the need or loss 
for this item.  The first sense is the most general, referring to finding a 
lost, needed, or missing item after a search (sense 3).  The other senses are 
more specific: one refers to finding something to fulfil a specified function 
(sense 7), another to obtaining something after considerable effort (sense 10),
and the last to recovering the use of something momentarily lost (sense 14).

GROUP THREE.  The two senses in this group both refer to opinions or 
conclusions made after introspection and not necessarily based on any concrete 
factor.  One of the senses specifies only that some belief is arrived at on 
indefinite grounds (sense 5), while the other is more specific and indicates a 
decision that results in a declaration (sense 11).

GROUP FOUR.  This last group is linked by the theme of perception, in that the 
subject perceives a situation, event, condition, or scenario, and the action 
devoted by the verb is apparently (or usually?) involuntary or passive on the 
subject's part.  The first of these senses is a general sense of perception 
(sense 6), while the second specific denotes perceiving one's own condition 
(sense 13).

OTHERS.  Four senses are ungrouped.  I had tinkered with grouping two of them, 
but ultimately decided that the differences were too substantial for this to be
a possibility.  The ungrouped singletons include finding something by accident
(sense 1), receiving some kind of reception (sense 13), succeeding in reaching 
a target (sense 15), and coming to understand and accept oneself (sense 16).