Keep

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
keep, maintain, hold -- (keep in a certain state, position, or activity; e.g., 
"keep clean"; "hold in place"; "She always held herself as a lady"; "The 
students keep me on my toes")

Sense 10
retain, continue, keep, keep on, keep going -- (allow to remain in a place or 
position; "We cannot continue several servants any longer"; "She retains a 
lawyer"; "The family's fortune waned and they could not keep their household 
staff"; "Our grant has run out and we cannot keep you on"; "We kept the work 
going as long as we could")



********************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 3
keep, hold on -- (retain possession of; "Can I keep my old stuffed animals?" 
"She kept her maiden name after she married")

Sense 17
keep open, hold open, keep, save -- (retain rights to; "keep my job for me 
while I give birth"; "keep my seat, please"; "keep open the possibility of a 
merger")

**********************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 4
prevent, keep -- (prevent from doing something or being in a certain state; "We
must prevent the cancer from spreading"; "His snoring kept me from falling 
asleep"; "Keep the child from eating the marbles")

Sense 14
restrain, suppress, keep, keep back, hold back -- (keep under control; keep in 
check; "suppress a smile"; "Keep your temper"; "keep your cool")

Sense 21
keep -- (hold and prevent from leaving; "The student was kept after school")

***********************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 5
observe, keep -- (conform one's action or practice to; "keep appointments"; 
"she never keeps her promises"; "We kept to the original conditions of the 
contract")

Sense 13
observe, celebrate, keep -- (celebrate, as of holidays or rites; "Keep the 
commandments"; "celebrate Christmas"; "Observe Yom Kippur")

*************************************************

GROUP FIVE

Sense 7
keep -- (look after; be the keeper of; have charge of; "He keeps the shop when 
I am gone")

Sense 15
keep, preserve -- (maintain in safety form injury, harm, or danger; "May God 
keep you")

Sense 16
keep -- (raise; "She keeps a few chickens in the yard"; "he keeps bees")

****************************************************

GROUP SIX

Sense 9
keep -- (supply with room and board; "He is keeping three women in the guest 
cottage"; "keep boarders")

Sense 11
sustain, keep, maintain -- (supply with necessities and support: "She alone 
sustained her family"; "The money will sustain our good cause"; "There's little
to earn and many to keep")

*****************************************************

GROUP SEVEN

Sense 12
keep, stay fresh -- (fail to spoil or rot; "These potatoes keep for a long 
time")

Sense 22
preserve, keep -- (prevent from rotting, of foods; "preserved meats"; "keep 
potatoes fresh")

*******************************************************

GROUP EIGHT

Sense 18
keep -- (store or keep customarily; "Where do you keep your gardening tools?")

Sense 19
keep -- (have as a supply; "I always keep batteries in the freezer"; "keep food
for a week in the pantry"; "She keeps a sixpack and a week's worth of supplies 
in the refrigerator")

Sense 20
keep, maintain -- (maintain for use and service; "I keep a car in the 
countryside"; "She keeps an apartment in Paris for her shopping trips")

*********************************************************

Sense 2
continue, go on, proceed, go along, keep -- (continue a certain state, 
condition, or activity; "Keep on working!" "We continued to work into the 
night"; "Keep smiling"; "We went on working until well past midnight")

*********************************************************

Sense 6
observe, keep, maintain -- (observe correctly or closely; "The pianist kept 
time with the metronome"; "keep count"; "I cannot keep track of all my 
employees")

*********************************************************

Sense 8
keep, maintain -- (maintain by writing regular records; "keep a diary"; 
"maintain a record"; "keep notes")

*********************************************************

NOTES:

I grouped "keep" without referring to the groups in WordNet, something I had 
not previously attempted, so I hope that this is sufficient and not too dicey. 
I made more groups than I remember WordNet as having, but I only have a few 
(two or three) senses in each one.

GROUP ONE.  The criterion for membership in this category was as follows: the 
subject had to keep the direct object in a state, position, activity, etc.  The
first sense (sense 1) is a general statement of this criterion, taking a 
subject doing the keeping, a direct object being kept, and an adjunct 
specifying the state or position in which the keeping is done.  The second 
sense is more specific: it refers to allowing someone to retain a position of 
employment (sense 10).  This sense is very similar to the first sense, the 
difference being that the adjunct is optional and usually omitted.  I think 
that the two belong together because although the adjunct in the second sense 
is usually left unstated, what is understood is that the direct object is still
being kept in a particular state, the state being a position of employment.

GROUP TWO.  This category is for senses that refer to keeping something as a 
belonging.  This might be more or less a concrete object, or at least something
one might see as an object, or it could be more abstract.  The first of the two
senses is more general, denoting any kind of possession (sense 3); the subject 
is usually understood as being in possession of the direct object.  The second 
sense involves keeping some sort of right or entitlement to something, and it 
is not always necessary that the subject be the possessor, and in fact I think 
the usual construction is for the subject to be keeping something FOR the 
possessor (sense 17).

GROUP THREE.  The feature uniting the senses in this group is an idea of 
prevention which may be more or less salient.  In the general, more basic 
sense, the subject prevents the object from doing something or being in some 
state (sense 4).  The other two senses are admittedly more marginal, especially
the sense which refers to keeping one's temper (sense 14); I would argue that 
there is a suppressed adjunct saying what one's temper would do if it were not 
so restrained.  The third sense is specific to preventing someone's departure 
(sense 21), and it is a less controversial member of the category than the 
second sense.

GROUP FOUR.  The feature chosen to link these two senses was an idea of honour:
one either honours an obligation one has made (sense 5), or one honours a 
holiday or other celebration (sense 13).

GROUP FIVE.  The idea behind this group is that a subject is seeing to the 
general upkeep and/or well-being of the direct object.  This might be a general
notion of looking after or monitoring something (sense 7), preserving the 
safety of something (sense 15), or raising something (sense 16).

GROUP SIX.  Arguably, this group could be grouped with the fifth group above; I
considered the notion myself and would not object too stringently if others 
wish to combine them, although my preference would be to keep them separate.  
This group has the idea of supplying the direct object with something, 
therefore looking after its well-being in a sense, but without the component of
constant monitoring; it is conceivable that this kind of keeping could be done 
in absentia, which cannot be said of the senses in the fifth group.  The two 
senses included here are the room-and-board sense (sense 9) and the supply with
necessities sense (sense 11).

GROUP SEVEN. This is another group that could possibly be combined with 
another, in this case with the first group, since it too addresses the notion 
of keeping something in a particular state.  However, the two senses differ in 
syntax (rather than in semantics) and the peculiar syntax of the one does not 
match the syntax in the first group; this is my chief reason for keeping the 
two groups separate.  However, I would not object if others feel it better to 
combine them.  Both of these senses have to do with keeping foodstuff fresh: 
one sense is intransitive (sense 12) and the other transitive (sense 22), and 
that is the only real difference between them.

GROUP EIGHT.  The senses here are united by a sense of keeping something 
habitually for a particular and specific reason.  They refer to the usual 
location where the items are stored (sense 18), the fact that the items are 
kept as a supply (sense 19), and the fact that the direct object is kept for a 
given use and service (sense 20).

OTHERS.  Three senses are ungrouped.  The first refers to continuing a certain 
state or activity intransitively (sense 2).  This could possibly be included in
the first group if we choose to disregard syntax as a criterion for grouping.  
The other two senses might be grouped with each or possibly with the fourth 
group, but I think they are separate and would probably object to lumping them.
One sense has to do with closely observing something relating to what one is 
currently doing (sense 6) and the other to maintaining a written record of some
kind (sense 8).