Leave

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
leave, go forth, go away -- (go away from a place; "At what time does your 
train leave?" "She didn't leave until midnight"; "The ship leaves at midnight")

Sense 5
exit, go out, get out, leave -- (move out of or depart from; "leave the room"; 
"the fugitive has left the country")

Sense 8
leave, depart, pull up stakes -- (remove oneself from an association with or 
participation in; "She wants to leave"; "The teenager left home"; "She left her
position with the Red Cross"; "He left the Senate after two terms"; "after 20 
years with the same company, she pulled up stakes")

******************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 2
leave -- (go and leave behind, either intentionally or by neglect or 
forgetfulness; "She left a mess when she moved out"; "His good luck finally 
left him"; "her husband left her after 20 years of marriage"; "she wept 
thinking she had been left behind")

Sense 12
leave, leave behind -- (be survived by after one's death: "He left six 
children"; "At her death, she left behind her husband and 11 cats")

Sense 14
forget, leave -- (leave behind unintentionally; "I forgot my umbrella in the 
restaurant"; "I left my keys inside the car and locked the doors")

******************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 3
leave -- (act or be so as to become in a specified state; "The inflation left 
them penniless"; "The president's remarks left us speechless")

Sense 7
leave, result, lead -- (result in; "The water left a mark on the silk dress"; 
"Her blood left a stain on the napkin")

******************************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 9
entrust, leave -- (put into the care or protection of someone; "He left the 
decision to his deputy"; "leave your child the nurse's care")

Sense 10
bequeath, will, leave -- (leave or give by will after one's death; "My aunt 
bequeathed me all her jewelry"; "My grandfather left me his entire estate")

Sense 13
impart, leave, give, pass on -- (tell or deposit (information) knowledge; 
"give a secret to the Russians"; "leave your name and address here")

******************************************************

Sense 4
leave, leave alone, leave behind -- (leave unchanged or undisturbed or refrain 
from taking; "leave it as is"; "leave the young fawn alone"; "leave the flowers
that you see in the park behind")

******************************************************

Sense 6
leave, allow for, allow, provide for -- (make a possibility or provide 
opportunity for; permit to be attainable or cause to remain; "This leaves no 
room for improvement"; "The evidence allows only one conclusion"; "allow for 
mistakes"; "leave lots of time for the trip")

******************************************************

Sense 11
leave -- (have left or have as a remainder; "That left the four of us"; "19 
minus 8 leaves 11")

******************************************************

NOTES:

One aspect of my proposal for groupings here may be somewhat controversial, I'm
not certain, and that is my decision to divide the two "death" senses into two 
different groups.  I am not happy with this decision -- it was not made lightly
-- but I think that it is justified because the two death senses each describe 
an action that fits perfectly under a different grouping, while the death 
senses share between themselves only the domain of death.  In an ideal world, 
there would be some way to have a happy medium and put the death senses next to
each other while maintaining their affiliation with those other groups, but 
alas this is not the case, and a decision must be made.  I went with one 
alternative, and I suspect that others might have been happier with the other 
alternative.  (Or maybe not, which would be lovely!)

GROUP ONE.  Of the three members of this group, one is of marginal status; I 
hesitated to include it because it was metaphorical and the other two were not.
This category centres upon the notion of going away from a location.  The two 
uncontroversial senses differ only in that the first is intransitive (sense 1) 
while the second is transitive, with the direct object of the abandoned 
location (sense 5).  The marginal sense included here takes a human subject and
a position or affiliation as the direct object, the idea being that the person 
is moving away from these former affiliations (sense 8).  The metaphor and its 
motivations are clear; however, I wasn't certain whether to group a 
metaphorical sense with two very concrete senses.  I would not object if it 
were decided to remove sense 8 from this group (although since I'm the dicer in
the group, I'm probably the one who would argue to remove it!).  More notes on 
sense 8 to follow in the next note.

GROUP TWO.  This second group differs from the first in that the departing 
entity is leaving behind an object, a person, etc. rather than a location.  
Another unique feature of this group, distinguishing it from one of the later 
groups, is that in this case the act of leaving may be unintentional.  There 
are three senses in this group of varying specificity: the first sense is 
general to leaving things behind, and can be either voluntary or involuntary 
(sense 2); the other two senses are more specific and involve either leaving 
survivors after one's death (sense 12) or leaving something behind 
(specifically) unintentionally (sense 14).  Sense 8 also entails leaving behind
something but as it always has a voluntary reading, I decided that it fit more 
with the first group, if with any.

GROUP THREE.  The two senses in this group are different from the others in 
that they are resultative.  The first sense in the group takes a causal 
subject, a direct object of the thing affected, and then a stative adjunct 
(sense 3).  The second sense appears to be for more tangible results, with the 
direct object being the result, rather than the patient (sense 7).

GROUP FOUR.  In this group, an agent leaves something behind voluntarily and 
with the added component of expecting someone to take care of whatever is left 
behind; one might say that this group has in common the notion of "entrusting."
There is one general sense, in which something is given into the care of 
someone, and this might be abstract, such as "leaving" a decision (sense 9); 
another of the senses specifically refers to bequeathing things in one's will 
(sense 10), and the third to leaving information with someone, especially on 
the understanding that a message will be passed along or acted upon (sense 13).

OTHERS.  Three senses were left with no affiliations.  One sense, sense 4, 
refers to leaving something unchanged or pristine, or otherwise failing to act 
upon it.  One could probably argue (with varying degrees of success) that sense
4 could be reasonably included in any of the four groups, and therefore I have 
chosen to place it with none.  

Sense 6 refers to something allowing for a possibility; it could perhaps have 
gone in the third group, but some of its nuances do not make this option 
attractive to me.  One possible use of sense 6 is to say that one is "leaving x
hours for the trip," which would not work at all in any of the other groups.  
So, although in some contexts sense 6 might be groupable, it is incompatible in
others, and therefore I think it is best left in isolation.

The third ungrouped sense is sense 11, the "subtractive" sense.  I think the 
only possible partner for sense 11 is sense 6, but since the idea of 
subtraction here is so specific I think that sense 11, like sense 6, is best 
left by itself.