Match

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
match, fit, correspond, check, jibe, gibe, tally, agree -- (be compatible, 
similar or consistent; coincide in their characteristics; "The two stories 
don't agree in many details"; "The handwriting checks with the signature on the
check"; "The suspect's fingerprints do'nt match those on the gun")

Sense 4
equal, touch, rival, match -- (be equal to in quality or ability; "Nothing can 
rival cotton for durability"; "Your performance doesn't even touch that of your
colleagues"; "Her persistence and ambition only matches that of her parents")

Sense 6
meet, match, cope with -- (satisfy or fulfill; "meet a need"; "this job doesn't
match my dreams")

***********************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 2
match -- (provide funds complementary to; "The company matched the employees' 
contributions")

Sense 9
equal, match, equalize, equalise, equate -- (make equal, uniform, 
corresponding, or matching; "let's equalize the duties among all employees in 
this office"; "The company matched the discount policy of its competitors")

***********************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 5
match, fit -- (make correspond or harmonize; "Match my sweater")

Sense 8
match -- (be equal or harmonize; "The two pieces match")

***********************************************

Sense 3
match, mate, couple, pair, twin -- (bring two objects, ideas, or people 
together; "This fact is coupled to the other one"; "Matchmaker, can you match 
my daughter with a nice young man?"; "The student was paired with a partner for
collaboration on the project")

***********************************************

Sense 7
pit, oppose, match, play off -- (set into opposition or rivalry; "let them 
match their best athletes against ours"; "pit a chess player against the 
Russian champion"; "He plays his two children off against each other")

***********************************************

NOTES:

"Match" is one of the more difficult verbs to group, I think, because the 
distinctions between each of the senses is very fine, and therefore I think the
lines could be appropriately drawn in many other ways than the one I chose.  
(Which, I discovered with considerable interest, is very different from the 
version selected for WordNet!)  I am glad that there are only nine senses to 
worry about; if the verb were more polysemous, it would be truly a nightmare to
group.  As it is, it is only tricky.

GROUP ONE.  The characteristic I chose for the first category was the idea of 
some sort of correspondence in features or characteristics.  The first sense 
refers to relations between objects that have some sort of compatibility or 
consistency in some characteristics (sense 1).  Another of the senses is 
specific to a correspondence in quality or ability (sense 4).  The third sense 
refers to something's corresponding to some sort of ideal so that it matches a 
kind of need (sense 6).

GROUP TWO.  This is probably the most questionable group of the three.  These 
two senses are both transitive and both refer to an agent's doing something to 
equal something else or make something else equal to something else, etc.  I 
have included the specific sense of providing funds equal or complementary to 
other funds (sense 2) as well as the more general sense of doing some action in
a way that is equal to the way someone else has done this thing(sense 9).

GROUP THREE.  I think this group is the least controversial; it is the only 
manner in which my grouping matches the WordNet grouping.  These two senses are
syntactic variations on each other; both have to do with a correspondence in 
some aesthetic harmony.  One of the senses is transitive with an agent finding 
something to complement the patient (sense 5), while the other sense is sort of
reciprocal, with a dual subject, an intransitive verb, and a technical term 
that momentarily escapes me (sense 8).

OTHERS.  Two other senses remain unmatched.  One, oddly enough, is the simplest
act of putting two things together (sense 3); I was unable to find any other 
sense that was neutral enough to fit it.  The other sense is the adversative 
sense of setting two things into opposition (sense 7); in contrast with sense 
3, sense 7 is TOO specific to fit into a group.