Play

*****************************************************

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
play -- (participate in games or sports; "We played hockey all afternoon"; 
"play cards"; "Pele played for the Brazilian teams in many important matches")
       => compete, vie, contend -- (compete for something; engage in a contest;
measure oneself against others)

Sense 34
meet, encounter, play, take on -- (contend against an opponent in a sport, 
game, or battle; "Princeton plays Yale this weekend"; "Charlie likes to play 
Mary")

******************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 2
play -- (act or have an effect in a specified way or with a specific effect or 
outcome; "This factor played only a minor part in his decision"; "This 
development played into her hands"; "I played no role in your dismissal")
       => act, move -- (perform an action; "think before you act"; "We must 
move quickly")

Sense 17
play -- (behave in a certain way; "play safe," "play it safe";"play fair")
       => act, move -- (perform an action; "think before you act"; "We must 
move quickly")

********************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 3
play -- (play (music) on an instrument; "The band played all night long")
       => perform -- (give a performance (of something); "Horowitz is 
performing at Carnegie Hall tonight"; "We performed a popular Gilbert and 
Sullivan opera")

Sense 6
play, spiel -- (as of melodies; "Play it again, Sam"; "She played the third 
movement very beautifully")
       => re-create -- (create anew; "Re-create the boom of the West on a small
scale")

Sense 7
play -- (perform music on (a musical instrument); "He plays the flute"; "Can 
you play on this old recorder?")
       => sound -- (cause to sound; "sound the bell")

***********************************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 4
act, play, represent -- (play a role or part; "Gielgud played Hamlet"; "She 
wants to act Lady Macbeth, but she is too young for the role")
       => re-create -- (create anew; "Re-create the boom of the West on a small
scale")

Sense 14
play -- (perform on a certain location: "The prodigy played Carnegie Hall at 
the age of 16"; "She has been playing on Broadway for years")
       => perform -- (give a performance (of something); "Horowitz is 
performing at Carnegie Hall tonight"; "We performed a popular Gilbert and 
Sullivan opera")

Sense 25
act, play, roleplay, playact -- (perform on a stage or theater; "She acts in 
this play"; "He acted in "Julius Caesar"; "I played in "A Christmas Carol")
       => perform -- (give a performance (of something); "Horowitz is 
performing at Carnegie Hall tonight"; "We performed a popular Gilbert and 
Sullivan opera")

Sense 26
play -- (be performed; "What's playing in the local movie theater?"; " `Cats' 
has been playing on Broadway for many years")

*************************************************************

GROUP FIVE

Sense 5
play -- (be at play; be engaged in playful activity; amuse oneself in a way 
characteristic of children; "The kids were playing outside all day"; "I used to
play with trucks as a little girl")
       => act -- (be engaged in an activity, often for no particular purpose 
other than pleasure)

Sense 11
play, recreate -- (engage in recreational activities rather than work; occupy 
oneself in a diversion; "On weekends I play"; "The students all recreate 
alike")

Sense 12
play -- (pretend to be somebody in the framework of a game or playful activity;
"Let's play like I am mommy"; "Play cowboy and Indians")
       => simulate, assume, sham, feign -- (make a pretence of; "She assumed 
indifference, even though she was seething with anger"; "he feigned sleep")

***************************************************************

GROUP SIX

Sense 10
play -- (bet or wager (money); "He played $20 on the new horse"; "She plays the
races")
       => gamble -- (play games for money)

Sense 29
play -- (make bets; "Play the reaces"; "play the casinos in Trouville")
       => bet, wager, play -- (stake on the outcome of an issue; "I bet $100 onthat new horse"; "She played all her money on the dark horse")

Sense 30
bet, wager, play -- (stake on the outcome of an issue; "I bet $100 on that new 
horse"; "She played all her money on the dark horse")
       => gamble -- (play games for money)

***************************************************************

GROUP SEVEN

Sense 13
play -- (emit recorded sound; "The tape was playing for hours"; "the stereo was
playing Beethoven when I entered")
       => sound -- (give off a certain sound or sounds: "This record sounds 
scratchy")

Sense 18
play, run -- (cause to be emit recorded sounds: "They ran the tapes over and 
over again"; "Can you play my favorite record?")

***************************************************************

GROUP EIGHT

Sense 15
play -- (put (a card or piece) into play during a game, or act strategically as
if in a card game; "He is playing his cards close to his chest"; "The Democrats
still have some cards to play before they will concede the electoral victory")
       => deploy -- (place troops or weapons in battle formation)

Sense 31
play -- (shoot or hit in a particular manner; "She played a good backhand last 
night")
       => hit -- (cause to move by striking; "hit a ball")

Sense 32
play -- (use or move; "I had to play my queen")
       => use, utilize, utilise, apply, employ -- (put into service; make work 
or employ (something) for a particular purpose or for its inherent or natural 
purpose: "use your head!"; "we only use Spanish at home"; "I can't make use of 
this tool"; "Apply a magnetic field here"; "This thinking was applied to many 
projects"; "How do you utilize this tool?"; "I apply this rule to get good 
results"; "use the plastic bags to store the food"; "He doesn't know how to use
a computer")

Sense 33
play -- (employ in a game or in a specific position; "They played him on first 
base")
       => use, utilize, utilise, apply, employ -- (put into service; make work 
or employ (something) for a particular purpose or for its inherent or natural 
purpose: "use your head!"; "we only use Spanish at home"; "I can't make use of 
this tool"; "Apply a magnetic field here"; "This thinking was applied to many 
projects"; "How do you utilize this tool?"; "I apply this rule to get 
good results"; "use the plastic bags to store the food"; "He doesn't know how 
to use a computer")

********************************************************************

GROUP NINE

Sense 16
play, toy -- (engage in an activity as if it were a game rather than take it 
seriously; "They played games on their opponents"; "play the stockmarket"; 
"play with her feelings"; "toy with an idea")
       => act, behave, do -- (behave in a certain manner; show a certain 
behavior; conduct or comport oneself; "You should act like an adult"; "Don't 
behave like a fool"; "What makes her do this way?"; "She played the servant her
husband's master")

Sense 20
play -- (use to one's advantage; "She plays on her clients' emotions")
       => exploit, work -- (use to one's advantage; "He exploit the new 
taxation system"; "She knows how to work the system"; "he works his parents for
sympathy")

Sense 21
dally, trifle, play -- (consider not very seriously; "He is trifling with her";
"She plays with the thought of moving to Tasmania")
       => consider, take, deal, look at -- (consider, as of an example; "Take 
the case of China"; "Consider the following case")

Sense 23
dally, toy, play, flirt -- (behave carelessly or indifferently; "Play about 
with a young girl's affection")
       => act, move -- (perform an action; "think before you act"; "We must 
move quickly")

*********************************************************

Sense 8
act, play, act as -- (pretend to have certain qualities or state of mind; "He 
acted the idiot"; "She plays deaf when the news are bad")
       => act, behave, do -- (behave in a certain manner; show a certain 
behavior; conduct or comport oneself; "You should act like an adult"; "Don't 
behave like a fool"; "What makes her do this way?"; "She played the servant her
husband's master")

*********************************************************

Sense 9
play -- (move or seem to move quickly, lightly, or irregularly; "The spotlights
played on the politicians")
       => travel, go, move, locomote -- (change location; move, travel, or 
proceed; "How fast does your new car go?" "We travelled from Rome to Naples by 
bus"; "The policemen went from door to door looking for the suspect";"The 
soldiers moved towards the city in an attempt to take it before night fell")

*********************************************************

Sense 19
toy, fiddle, diddle, play -- (manipulate manually or in one's mind or 
imagination; "She played nervously with her wedding ring"; "Don't fiddle with 
the screws"; "He played with the idea of running for the Senate:)
       => manipulate -- (hold something in one's hands and move it)

*********************************************************

Sense 22
play -- (be received or accepted or interpreted in a specific way; "This speech
didn't play well with the American public"; "His remarks played to the 
suspicions of the committee")

**********************************************************

Sense 24
play -- (cause to move or operate freely within a bounded space, as of 
machinery; "The engine has a wheel that is playing in a rack")
       => move, displace -- (cause to move, both in a concrete and in an 
abstract sense; "Move those boxes into the corner, please"; "I'm moving my 
money to another bank"; "The director moved more responsibilities onto his new 
assistant")

**********************************************************

Sense 27
bring, work, play, wreak, make for -- (cause to happen or to occur as a 
consequence; "I cannot work a miracle" "wreak havoc"; "bring comments"; "play a
joke"; "The rain brought relief to the drought-stricken area")
       => make, create -- (make or cause to be or to become; "make a mess in 
one's office"; "create a furor")

**********************************************************

Sense 28
play -- (discharge or direct or be discharged or directed as if in a continuous
stream: "play water from a hose"; "The fountains played all day")
       => discharge -- (pour forth or release; esp. of liquids)

**********************************************************

Sense 35
play -- (exhaust by allowing to pull on the line; "play a hooked fish")
       => exhaust, wash up, beat, tucker, tucker out -- (wear out completely; 
"This kind of work exhausts me"; "I'm beat"; "He was all washed up after the 
exam")

**********************************************************

NOTES:

This is possibly the most fun of all of the verbs in our set.  To group it, I 
relied partly upon semantic domains and partly upon syntax.

GROUP ONE.  The senses of this group were clustered together because they both 
refer to participation in a game or athletic activity.  The objects here 
distinguish the two senses: one sense takes the activity as its object (sense 
1), while the other takes the opponent as the direct object (sense 33).  I chose
to include here only those senses in which actual participation in the game 
itself (as opposed to specific movements within the game) were referred to.

GROUP TWO.  Both of the senses in this group are fairly underspecified and both 
refer to participation in some sort of scenario, with either the role (sense 2)
or the manner (sense 17) specified in the arguments.  These verbs are also 
distinct in that they are light verb constructions.

GROUP THREE.  The senses in this group all involve live musical performance.  
The differences between them are syntactic: one sense is essentially 
intransitive, though it can also take a cognate object (sense 3), another takes 
the melody played as a direct object (sense 6), and the third takes the 
instrument as direct object (sense 7).

GROUP FOUR.  This group contains the senses relating to dramatic performance.  
To be categorise in this cluster, the sense had to refer specifically to 
dramatic performance as opposed to informal role-playing.  The differences 
between the senses are again syntactic: one sense takes a human subject and a 
direct object of the role acted (sense 4), another takes a human subject and a 
locative direct object (sense 14), a third takes the production as subject and 
location as direct object OR a human subject and a production as direct object 
(sense 25), and the last is intransitive and takes the production as subject 
(sense 26).

GROUP FIVE.  Membership in this cluster was determined by semantic domain: all 
of these senses refer to recreation.  This can be the behaviour of children 
(sense 5) or less specific forms of recreation (sense 11).  These two senses are
intransitive.  I have also included here a sense which specifies (either as a 
direct object or as an adjunct) either the type of game played or the role 
played within the context of the game (sense 12).

GROUP SIX.  This cluster is also very domain specific, relating to gambling.  My
knowledge of gambling is minimal and therefore I am not overly certain what the 
differences between the senses in the group are, but it is clear that these 
senses (sense 10, sense 29, sense 30) form a group.

GROUP SEVEN.  This group contains the senses relating to recorded sounds played 
on CDs and the like.  The difference between the two is syntactic: one sense is 
intransitive (sense 13) and the other is causative (sense 18).

GROUP EIGHT.  I have chosen to separate this group from the first group because 
the senses here, while they do refer to participation in games or athletics, 
refer not to the situation as a whole, but rather to a particular decision 
within the context.  This can involve taking one's turn within the game (or 
behaving in a strategic fashion outside the context of an actual game) (sense 
15), or to the particular manner in which something is done within the game 
(sense 31), or using a particular piece (sense 32) or person (sense 33) in a 
specific capacity.

GROUP NINE.  The final group is for senses that involve a particular sort of 
behaviour or attitude on the part of the subject.  This might be treating a 
real-life situation as if it were a game (sense 16), manipulating others as 
though they were pieces in a game (sense 20), acting in a frivolous manner or 
failing to take something seriously (sense 21), or behaving without giving 
serious thought to the consequences of one's actions (sense 23).

NEAR-MISSES.  Three of the ungrouped senses have features in common with one or 
more groups, but I have chosen to leave them separate.  Sense 8 involves 
role-playing in a real-life context and therefore could belong to either the 
fourth or the fifth group, but neither well.  Sense 19 involves toying with 
something, and in its mental reading could fit with the ninth group, but its 
more salient feature is that of physical fiddling, which eliminates its 
membership in any group.  Sense 27 is largely the realm of idioms; it has 
something elusive in common with the second group, but its unique syntax makes 
me place it in its own category.

OTHER SINGLETONS.  Five other senses have been left ungrouped.  Sense 9 is a 
visual sense; sense 22 has to do with how something is received; sense 24 is 
unique to machinery; sense 28 has to do with the direction of streams of water; 
and sense 35 is specific to fishing.  All of these are semantically unique.