Pull

******************************************************

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
pull, draw, force -- (cause to move along the ground by pulling; "draw a 
wagon"; "pull a sled")
       => move, displace -- (cause to move, both in a concrete and in an 
abstract sense; "Move those boxes into the corner, please"; "I'm moving my 
money to another bank"; "The director moved more responsibilities onto his new 
assistant")

Sense 4
pull -- (apply force so as to cause motion towards the source of the motion; 
"Pull the rope"; "Pull the handle towards you"; "pull the string gently"; "pull
the trigger of the gun"; "pull your kneees towards your chin")
       => force -- (do forcibly; exert force; "Don't force it!")

Sense 9
pull -- (cause to move in a certain direction by exerting a force upon, either 
physically or in an abstract sense; "A declining dollar pulled down the export 
figures for the last quarter")
       => move, displace -- (cause to move, both in a concrete and in an 
abstract sense; "Move those boxes into the corner, please"; "I'm moving my 
money to another bank"; "The director moved more responsibilities onto his new 
assistant")

Sense 10
pull -- (operate when rowing a boat; "pull the oars")
       => row -- (propel with oars; "row the boat"; down the lake")

Sense 13
rend, rip, rive, pull -- (tear or be torn violently; "The curtain ripped from 
top to bottom"; "pull the cooked chicken into strips")
       => tear, rupture, snap, bust -- (separate or cause to separate abruptly;
"The rope snapped"; "tear the paper")

*********************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 2
attract, pull, pull in, draw in -- (direct toward itself or oneself; "Her good 
looks attract the stares of many men"; "The ad pulled in many potential 
customers"; "This pianist pulls huge crowds"; "The store owner was happy that 
the ad drew in many new customers")
       => pull, draw, force -- (cause to move along the ground by pulling;
"draw a wagon"; "pull a sled")

Sense 12
attract, fetch, pull, draw -- (attract or elicit; "The school attracts students
with artistic talents"; "His playing drew a crowd"; "The painting fetched more 
than a million at the auction"; "The star cast pulled many people to the box 
office")

*********************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 3
pull -- (move into a certain direction; of a car; "The van pulled up")
       => drive -- (move by being propelled by a force; "The car drove around 
the corner")

Sense 7
pull -- (steer into a certain direction; of a vehicle; "pull one's horse to a 
stand"; "Pull the car over")
       => drive -- (cause someone or something to move by driving; "She drove 
me to school every day"; "We drove the car to the garage")

**********************************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 6
draw, pull, pull out, get out, take out -- (bring, take, or pull out of a 
container or from under a cover; "draw a weapon"; "pull out a gun"; "The mugger
pulled a knife on his victim")
       => remove, take, take away, withdraw -- (remove something concrete, as 
by lifting, pushing, taking off, etc.; or remove something abstract; "remove a 
threat"; "remove a wrapper"; "Remove the dirty dishes from the table"; "take 
the gun from your pocket"; "This machine withdraws heat from the environment")

Sense 16
extract, pull out, pull, pull up, take out, draw out -- (draw or pull out, 
usually with some force or effort; also used in an abstract sense; "pull 
weeds"; "extract a bad tooth"; "take out a splinter"; "extract information from
the telegram")
       => remove, take, take away, withdraw -- (remove something concrete, as 
by lifting, pushing, taking off, etc.; or remove something abstract; "remove a 
threat"; "remove a wrapper"; "Remove the dirty dishes from the table"; "take 
the gun from your pocket"; "This machine withdraws heat from the environment")

Sense 18
pull -- (take away; "pull the old soup cans from the supermarket shelf")
       => remove, take, take away, withdraw -- (remove something concrete, as 
by lifting, pushing, taking off, etc.; or remove something abstract; "remove a 
threat"; "remove a wrapper"; "Remove the dirty dishes from the table"; "take 
the gun from your pocket"; "This machine withdraws heat from the environment")

**********************************************************

Sense 5
perpetrate, commit, pull -- (perform an act, usually with a negative 
connotation: "perpetrate a crime"; "pull a bank robbery")
       => act, move -- (perform an action; "think before you act"; "We must 
move quickly")

*********************************************************

Sense 8
pull, overstretch -- (strain abnormally; "I pulled a muscle in my leg when I 
jumped up"; "The athlete pulled a tendon in the competition")
       => injure, wound -- (cause injuries or bodily harm to)

*********************************************************

Sense 11
pull -- (rein in to keep from winning a race; "pull a horse")
       => rein, rein in -- (stop or check by or as if by a pull at the reins; 
"He reined in his horses in front of the post office")

**********************************************************

Sense 13
rend, rip, rive, pull -- (tear or be torn violently; "The curtain ripped from 
top to bottom"; "pull the cooked chicken into strips")
       => tear, rupture, snap, bust -- (separate or cause to separate abruptly;
"The rope snapped"; "tear the paper")

**********************************************************

Sense 14
pull -- (baseball: hit in the direction that the player is facing when carrying
through the swing; "pull the ball")
       => hit -- (cause to move by striking; "hit a ball")

**********************************************************

Sense 15
pluck, pull, tear, deplume, deplumate, displume -- (strip of feathers; "pull a 
chicken"; "pluck the capon")
       => strip -- (remove the surface from; "strip wood")

**********************************************************

Sense 17
side, pull, root -- (take sides with; align oneself with; show strong sympathy 
for; "We all rooted for the home team"; "I'm pulling for the underdog"; "Are 
you siding with the defender of the title?")
       => back, endorse, plump for, plunk for, support -- (be behind; approve 
of; "He plumped for the Labor Party"; "I backed Kennedy in 1960")

*********************************************************

NOTES:

The senses of "pull" tend to be highly idiomatic, and therefore my groupings 
have been done almost entirely on semantic grounds.  Because so many of the 
senses are idiosyncratic, many of them have not been grouped at all, and 
several of the existing groups appear to be, in essence, groups of very 
productive idioms.

GROUP ONE.  The least idiomatic senses of "pull" all have to do with exerting 
physical force upon an object, causing it to move in the direction of the 
subject.  The senses which most retain this notion have been placed in this 
group.  They can refer to dragging something along the ground (sense 1), the 
general act of pulling (sense 4), exertion of a force in a possibly abstract 
sense (sense 9), operating a boat with oars (sense 10), or violently ripping 
something apart (sense 13).

GROUP TWO.  These senses are more abstract and relate to attracting attention 
from others.  This can be simple attraction of interest or attention (sense 2) 
or it may also have a sense of inducing some activity on the part of its direct
object (sense 12).

GROUP THREE.  Two different vehicle-related senses are recognised for "pull," 
and they form a natural cluster.  They differ mostly in that the first is 
intransitive (sense 3) and the second transitive (sense 7).

GROUP FOUR.  The fourth group encompasses the idea of withdrawing something 
from within a container.  There is the most basic sense of removing (sense 6) 
in addition to another sense that entails difficulty (sense 16) and a third, 
less closely related, that involves recalling merchandise from circulation 
(sense 18).

SINGLETONS.  Again, the six ungrouped senses are fairly idiosyncratic and 
restricted to a particular domain, often with syntax peculiar to themselves.  
The ungrouped senses range from getting away with some action (sense 5) to 
injuring oneself (sense 8) to purposefully losing a race (sense 11) to a way of
hitting a baseball (sense 14) to removing feathers (sense 15) to expressing 
specific allegiance (sense 17).
