Replace

****************************

GROUP ONE:

Sense 1
replace -- (substitute a person or thing for (another that is broken or 
inefficient or lost or no longer working or yielding what is expected); "He 
replaced the old razor blade"; "We need to replace the secretary that left a 
month ago"; "the insurance will replace the lost income"; "This antique vase 
can never be replaced")
       => regenerate, renew -- (re-establish on a new, usually improved, basis 
or make new or like new; "We renewed our friendship after a hiatus of twenty 
years"; "They renewed their membership")

Sense 2
supplant, replace, supersede, supervene upon -- (take the place or move into 
the position of; "Smith replaced Miller as CEO after Miller left"; "the 
computer has supplanted the slide rule"; "Mary replaced Susan as the team's 
captain and the highest-ranked player in the school")
       => succeed, come after, follow -- (be the successor (of); "Carter 
followed Ford"; "Will Charles succeed to the throne?)

Sense 3
substitute, replace -- (put in the place of another; switch seemingly 
equivalent items; "the con artist replaced the original with a fake Rembrandt";
"substitute regular milk with fat-free milk")
       => exchange, change, interchange -- (give to, and receive from, one 
another; "Would you change places with me?" "We have been exchanging letters 
for a year")

**********************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 4
replace, put back -- (put something back where it belongs; "replace the book on
the shelf after you have finished reading it"; "please put the clean dishes 
back in the cabinet when you have washed them")
       => put, set, place, pose, position, lay -- (put into a certain place or 
abstract location; "Put your things here"; "Set the tray down"; "Set the dogs 
on the scent of the missing children"; "Place emphasis on a certain point")

******************************************

NOTES:

Using criteria (5).  Senses [1, 2, 3] all involve the replacement of one item 
with a different item, whereas in sense [4] the item being replaced is its own 
replacement.  So sense [4] is a reflexive sense and the other three are not.  
Also, senses [1, 2, 3] often have negative connotations, meaning that one of 
the entities, either the object being replaced or its replacement, is somehow 
lesser in quality than the other.  Sense 4 has no such connotations; it is 
entirely neutral.

Also, from my experience tagging these verbs, I know that in many cases it is 
nigh impossible to tell whether one is looking at sense 1, sense 2, or sense 3,
and frequently a double-tag results.  No such confusion is involved with sense 
4; when it appears, it is always very distinct.
