See

********************************************

GROUP ONE ("PHYSICAL" SIGHT):

Sense 1
see -- (perceive by sight or have the power to perceive by sight; "You have to 
be a good observer to see all the details"; "Can you see the bird in that 
tree?" "He is blind--he cannot see")
       => perceive, comprehend -- (to become aware of through the senses; "I 
could perceive the ship coming over the horizon")

Sense 7
watch, view, see, catch, take in -- (see or watch; "view a show on television";
"This program will be seen all over the world"; "view an exhibition"; "Catch a 
show on Broadway"; "see a movie")
       => watch -- (look attentively; "watch a basketball game")

Sense 19
see -- (observe as if with an eye; "The camera saw the burglary and recorded 
it")
       => detect, observe, find, discover, notice -- (discover or determine the
existence, presence, or fact of; "She detected high levels of lead in her 
drinking water"; "We found traces of lead in the paint")

Sense 20
examine, see -- (observe, check out, and look over carefully or inspect; "The 
customs agent examined the baggage"; "I must see your passport before you can 
enter the country")

*********************************************

GROUP TWO ("MENTAL" SIGHT):

Sense 2
understand, realize, realise, see -- (perceive mentally, as of an idea; "Now I 
see!"; "I just can't see your point"; "Does she realize how important this 
decision is?"; "I don't understand the idea")

Sense 4
visualize, envision, project, fancy, see, figure, picture, image -- (imagine; 
conceive of; see in one's mind; "I can't see him on horseback!" "I can see what
will happen"; "I can see a risk in this strategy")
       => imagine, conceive of, ideate, envisage -- (form a mental image of 
something that is not present or that is not the case; "Can you conceive of him
as the president?")

*********************************************

GROUP THREE ("PERCEPTUAL" SIGHT):

Sense 3
witness, find, see -- (perceive with any or all of one's senses; "We found 
Republicans winning the offices"; "You'll see a lot of cheating in this 
school"; give rise to or be characterized by; "The 1960 saw the rebellion of 
the younger generation against established traditions"; "I want to see 
results")
       => experience, undergo, see, go through -- (go or live through; "We had 
many trials to go through"; "he saw action in Viet Nam")

Sense 6
learn, hear, get word, get wind, pick up, find out, get a line, discover, see 
-- (get to know or become aware of, usually accidentally; "I learned that she 
has two grown-up children"; "I see that you have been promoted")

*********************************************

GROUP FOUR ("SUBJECTIVE" SIGHT):

Sense 5
see, consider, reckon, view, regard -- (consider or deem to be; regard; "She 
views this quite differently from me"; "I consider her to be shallow"; "I don't
see the situation quite as negatively as you do")
       => think, believe, consider, conceive -- (judge or regard; look upon; 
judge; "I think he is very smart"; "I believe her to be very smart"; "I think 
that he is her boyfriend"; "The racist conceives such people to be inferior")

Sense 24
interpret, construe, see -- (make sense of; assign a meaning to; "What message 
do you see in this letter?" "How do you interpret his behavior?")
       => understand -- (know and comprehend the nature or meaning of; "She did
not understand her husband"; "I understand what she means")

***********************************************

GROUP FIVE ("ACTIVE" SIGHT):

Sense 8
determine, check, find out, see, ascertain, watch, learn -- (find out, learn, 
or determine with certainty, usually by making an inquiry or other effort; "I 
want to see whether she speaks French"; "See whether it works"; "find out if he
speaks Russian"; "Check whether the train leaves on time")

Sense 10
see, check, insure, see to it, ensure, control, ascertain, assure -- (be 
careful or certain to do something; make certain of something; "He verified 
that the valves were closed"; "See that the curtains are closed"; "control the 
quality of the product")
       => verify -- (confirm the truth of; "Please verify that the doors are 
closed"; "verify a claim")

Sense 14
attend, take care, look, see -- (take charge of or deal with; "Could you see 
about lunch?"; "I must attend to this matter"; "She took care of this 
business")
       => care, give care -- (provide care for; "The nurse was caring for the 
wounded")

*************************************************

GROUP SIX ("PROFESSIONAL" SIGHT):

Sense 11
see -- (go to see for professional or business reasons; "You should see a 
lawyer"; "We had to see a psychiatrist")
       => visit, call in, call -- (pay a brief visit; "The mayor likes to call 
on some of the prominent citizens")

Sense 15
see -- (receive as a specified guest; "the doctor will see you now"; "The 
minister doesn't see anybody before noon")
       => receive, take in, invite -- (express willingness to have in one's 
home or environs; "The community warmly received the refugees")

**************************************************

GROUP SEVEN ("SOCIAL" SIGHT):

Sense 9
meet, ran into, encounter, run across, come across, see -- (come together; 
"I'll probably see you at the meeting"; "How nice to see you again!")

Sense 12
see -- (go to see for a social visit; "I went to see my friend Mary the other 
day")
       => visit, call in, call -- (pay a brief visit; "The mayor likes to call 
on some of the prominent citizens")

Sense 16
go steady, go out, date, see -- (date regularly; have a steady relationship 
with; "Did you know that she is seeing an older man?" "He is dating his former 
wife again!")
       => consort, associate, affiliate, assort -- (keep company with; hang out
with; "He associates with strange people"; "She affiliates with her 
colleagues")

Sense 22
see, escort -- (accompany or escort: "I'll see you to the door")
       => accompany -- (go or travel along with; "The nurse accompanied the 
old lady everywhere")

***************************************************

("RECREATIONAL" SIGHT):

Sense 13
visit, see -- (visit a place, as for entertainment; "We went to see the Eiffel 
Tower in the morning")
       => tour -- (make a tour of a certain place)

***************************************************

("ARTISTIC" SIGHT):

Sense 17
see -- (see and understand, have a good eye; "The artist must first learn to 
see")
       => see -- (perceive by sight or have the power to perceive by sight; 
"You have to be a good observer to see all the details"; "Can you see the bird 
in that tree?" "He is blind--he cannot see")

***************************************************

("DELIBERATIVE" SIGHT):

Sense 18
see -- (deliberate or decide; "See whether you can come tomorrow"; "let's see--
which movie should we see tonight?")
       => deliberate, cogitate -- (consider carefully and deeply; reflect upon;
turn over in one's mind)

****************************************************

("EXPERIENTIAL" SIGHT):

Sense 21
experience, undergo, see, go through -- (go or live through; "We had many 
trials to go through"; "he saw action in Viet Nam")
       => participate, take part -- (be involved in something)

****************************************************

("POKER" SIGHT):

Sense 23
see -- (match or meet in card games; "I saw the bet of one of my fellow 
players")
       => bet, wager, play -- (stake on the outcome of an issue; "I bet $100 on
that new horse"; "She played all her money on the dark horse")

****************************************************

NOTES:

I followed the WordNet decisions fairly closely -- much of the way the senses 
of "see" are currently grouped came originally from me -- but I have made some 
changes as well, mostly towards expanding the membership of the groups.  "See" 
is really a rather easy verb to group, as its senses tell to fall into several 
categories.  I have made seven, leaving five senses ungrouped, and was even 
able to provide names for each of my groups.

I largely used criterion (4) to make these groups, but in one instance I 
excluded one sense from a possible group for syntactic reasons.

PHYSICAL SIGHT.  Members of this group all refer to the physical act of seeing.
This includes the basic act of seeing (sense 1), as well as the act of watching
a performance (sense 7), the metaphorical extension of sight to electronic 
equipment (sense 19) and the physical act of examination (sense 20).

MENTAL SIGHT.  The senses in this group all pertain to mental imagery.  This 
can be either visualisation of a concept (sense 2) or of a scene or picture 
(sense 4).

PERCEPTUAL SIGHT.  Both senses in this group refer in some way to perception: 
either through witnessing an event or scenario (sense 3) or knowledge (sense 
6).  In both cases the act is _usually_ involuntary and the subject is not a 
direct participant.  Also, both senses can take THAT-clauses.

SUBJECTIVE SIGHT.  This group is for senses pertaining to opinions (sense 5) or
interpretations of observations (sense 24).  The subjective senses differ from 
the mental senses in that they do not involve the formation of imagery, and 
from the perceptual senses in that they require some interpretation on the part
of the subject, while the perceptual senses do not.

ACTIVE SIGHT.  A sense was considered a member of this group if the act of 
seeing constituted special activity on the part of the subject: either finding 
out some information (sense 8), ensuring that some action is or has been 
performed (sense 10), or taking care of an action oneself (sense 14).  The 
active senses differ from the perceptual senses in that the subject is 
acquiring his information through his own actions and not through passive 
observation.

PROFESSIONAL SIGHT.  These senses involve the consultation of two people for a 
specific purpose that does not involve a personal relationship -- seeing a 
doctor, lawyer, consultant, etc.  This can be either the establishment of such 
a personal relationship (sense 11) or the actual meetings between patron and 
client (sense 15).

SOCIAL SIGHT.  This group differs from the previous group in presupposing that 
all meetings are done on a personal (or at least non-professional) basis.  All 
of these verbs take human arguments as both subject and object.  Senses in the 
group may refer to chance encounters (sense 9), social visits between friends 
or peers as opposed to a professional relationship (sense 12), romantic or 
pseudo-romantic attachments (sense 16), and accompanyment (sense 22).

RECREATIONAL SIGHT.  Sense 13 is currently grouped with sense 12 in WordNet; 
however, it is excluded from the social group because of its object selection, 
as it takes a place as its direct object.

ARTISTIC SIGHT.  Sense 17 is grouped with the mental senses in WordNet.  I have
extrapolated it because it seems to have a physical component rather than being
strictly mental visualisation.  It seems to be in its own category.

DELIBERATIVE SIGHT.  Sense 18 involves the making of a decision.  It involves 
mental, subjective, and active components, at least potentially, and therefore 
could have been included as a peripheral member in one of the other groups.  
Therefore I decided to leave it alone.

EXPERIENTIAL SIGHT.  Sense 21 is not grouped with the perceptual senses on two 
grounds: first, the subject is experiencing the situation directly and not 
passively, and second, it cannot take a THAT-clause.

POKER SIGHT.  Sense 23 is in a league of its own.

