Serve

******************************************************

GROUP ONE:

Sense 1
serve, function -- (serve a purpose, role, or function; "The tree stump serves 
as a table"; "The female students served as a control group"; "This table would
serve very well"; "His freedom served him well"; The table functions as a 
desk")
       => suffice, do, answer, serve -- (be sufficient; be adequate, either in 
quality or quantity; "A few words would answer"; "This car suits my purpose 
well"; "Will $100 do?"; "A "B" grade doesn't suffice to get me into medical 
school"; "Nothing else will serve")

Sense 3
serve -- (contribute or conduce to; "The scandal served to increase his 
popularity")
       => effect, effectuate, bring about, set up -- (cause to happen or occur;
"The scientists set up a shockwave")

Sense 12
suffice, do, answer, serve -- (be sufficient; be adequate, either in quality or
quantity; "A few words would answer"; "This car suits my purpose well"; "Will 
$100 do?"; "A "B" grade doesn't suffice to get me into medical school"; 
"Nothing else will serve")
       => satisfy, fulfill, fulfil, live up to -- (fulfil the requirements or 
expectations of)

********************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 2
serve -- (do duty or hold offices; serve in a specific function: "He served as 
head of the department for three years"; "She served in Congress for two 
terms")
       => work, do work -- (be employed; "Is your husband working again?" "My 
wife never worked"; "Do you want to work after the age of 60?" "She never did 
any work because she inherited a lot of money"; "She works as a waitress to put
herself through college")

Sense 13
serve -- (do military service; "She served in Vietnam"; "My sons never served, 
because they are short-sighted")
       => work, do work -- (be employed; "Is your husband working again?" "My 
wife never worked"; "Do you want to work after the age of 60?" "She never did 
any work because she inherited a lot of money"; "She works as a waitress to putherself through college")

*********************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 4
service, serve -- (be used by; as of a utility: "The sewage plant served the 
neighboring communities"; "The garage served to shelter his horses")
       => function, work, operate, go, run -- (perform as expected when 
applied; "The washing machine won't go unless it's plugged in"; "Does this old 
car still run well?"; "This old radio doesn't work anymore")

Sense 8
serve, serve well -- (promote, benefit, or be useful or beneficial to; "Art 
serves commerce"; "Their interests are served"; "The lake serves recreation"; 
"The President's wisdom has served the counrty well")
       => foster, nurture -- (help develop, help grow)

Sense 14
serve, service -- (mate with; "male animals serve the females for breeding 
purposes")
       => copulate, mate, pair, couple -- (make love; "Birds mate in the 
Spring")

**********************************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 5
serve, help -- (help to some food; help with food or drink; "I served him three
times, and after that he helped himself")
       => provide, supply, ply, cater -- (provide what is desired or needed, 
esp. support, food or sustenance; "The hostess provided lunch for all the 
guests")

Sense 6
serve, serve up, dish out, dish up, dish -- (provide (usually but not 
necessarily food); "We serve meals for the homeless"; "She dished out the soup 
at 8 P.M."; "The entertainers served up a lively show")
       => provide, supply, ply, cater -- (provide what is desired or needed, 
esp. support, food or sustenance; "The hostess provided lunch for all the 
guests")

Sense 11
serve, process, swear out -- (deliver a warrant or summons to someone; "He was 
processed by the sheriff")
       => deliver -- (bring to a destination, make a delivery; "our local super
market delivers")

***********************************************************

GROUP FIVE

Sense 7
serve -- (devote (part of) one's life or efforts to, as of countries, 
institutions, or ideas: "She served the art of music"; "He served the church"; 
"serve the country")
       => work -- (exert oneself by doing mental or physical work for a purpose
or out of necessity; "I will work hard to improve my grades"; "she worked hard 
for better living conditions for the poor")

Sense 10
serve, attend to, wait on, attend, assist -- (work for or be a servant to; "May
I serve you?"; "She attends the old lady in the wheelchair"; "Can you wait on 
our table, please?"; "Is a salesperson assisting you?"; "The minister served 
the King for many years")
       => help, assist, aid -- (give help or assistance; be of service; 
"Everyone helped out during the earthquake"; "Can you help me carry this 
table?" "She never helps around the house")

**************************************************************

Sense 9
serve, do -- (spend time in prison or in a labor camp; "He did six years for 
embezzlement")
       => spend, pass -- (pass in a specific way; as of time; "How are you 
spending your summer vacation?")

***************************************************************

Sense 15
serve -- (put the ball into play; as in games like tennis; "It was Agassi's 
turn to serve")
       => move, go -- (have a turn; make one's move in a game; "Can I go now?")

***************************************************************

NOTES:

The primary criteria used for the grouping of "serve" were (5) and (6).  I also 
excluded some senses from groups because of criterion (4).

GROUP ONE.  The three senses clustered in this group are alike in that they all 
refer to fulfilling a particular function.  One characteristic of these three 
senses is that they can all be a bit vague.  The subject of these senses is 
usually the item doing the serving, and the complement is often a prepositional 
phrase or some sort of complement clause illustrating the function the item is 
serving; these uses are apparently intransitive, and can refer to general items 
filling their typical role (sense 1), contributing to a particular result (sense
3), or filling their typical role sufficiently (sense 12).

GROUP TWO.  The senses in this group take human subjects who are either holding 
a particular public or professional office or employed in a specific capacity 
(sense 2) or in the military (sense 13).  Also intransitive, they can appear 
with or without a complement explicating the role they are filling.

GROUP THREE.  The difference between the senses in this group and the senses in 
the first group is primarily syntactic.  The subjects of these senses are the 
item filling the role, but the verb then takes a direct object of the thing 
receiving the service rather than a complement specifying the service performed.
The senses include a general "provide a service to" sense (sense 4), a more 
explicitly beneficial sense (sense 8) and a highly specific breeding sense 
(sense 14).

GROUP FOUR.  This group is distinct in that it requires three objects, though 
one of the objects may be elided.  The arguments are the subject providing the 
service, a direct object of the thing he is providing (typically something 
concrete in nature), and an indirect object of the beneficient.  The distinction
between the senses in this group is partly that of syntax and partly that of 
domain specificity: the most salient distinction is whether the object is the 
beneficient of the service (sense 5) or the service itself (sense 6); the third 
sense (sense 11) is a more specific sub-sense of serving someone with a warrant,
and it can probably occur in either syntactic frame.

GROUP FIVE.  This group takes a human subject providing service, but it differs 
from other groups in that the nature of the service is underspecified.  Instead,
the object or complement clause is the beneficiary of the service.  The service 
offered can either be of a rather philosophical and ideological kind 
encompassing the life of the server (sense 7) or of a more pragmatic, strictly 
professional nature (sense 10).

SINGLETONS.  Two of the senses of "serve" were left alone as singletons.  Sense 
9 refers to a human subject serving "time," which does not fit into any of the 
other groups.  Sense 15 is an athletic sense that has a sort of metaphorical 
link to the fourth group in that a human is providing someone with something 
concrete, but the link is not very salient and I decided that the domain 
specificity of this sense warranted its exclusion from a group.

