Strike

******************************************************

GROUP ONE:

Sense 1
hit, strike, impinge on, run into, collide with -- (hit against; come into 
sudden contact with; "The car hit a tree"; "He struck the table with his 
elbow")
       => touch -- (make physical contact with, come in contact with; "Touch 
the stone for good luck"; "She never touched her husband")

Sense 2
strike -- (deliver a sharp blow, as with the hand, fist, or weapon; "The 
teacher struck the child"; "the opponent refused to strike"; "The boxer struck 
the attacker dead")
       => touch -- (make physical contact with, come in contact with; "Touch 
the stone for good luck"; "She never touched her husband")

Sense 8
fall, shine, strike -- (touch or seem as if touching visually or audibly; 
"Light fell on her face"; "The sun shone on the fields"; "The light struck the
golden necklace"; "A strange sound struck my ears")
       => happen, hap, go on, pass off, occur, pass, come about, take place -- 
(come to pass; "What is happening?"; "The meeting took place off without an 
incidence"; "Nothing occurred that seemed important")

Sense 19
strike -- (pierce with force; "The bullet struck her thigh"; "The icy wind 
struck through our coats")
       => penetrate -- (pass into or through, often by overcoming resistance; 
"The bullet penetrated her chest")

*******************************************************

GROUP TWO:

Sense 3
affect, impress, move, strike -- (have an emotional or cognitive impact upon; 
"This child impressed me as unusually mature"; "This behavior struck me as 
odd")

Sense 15
hit, strike, come to -- (cause to experience suddenly; "Panic struck me"; "An 
interesting idea hit her"; "A thought came to me"; "The thought struck terror 
in our minds"; "They were struck with fear")

*********************************************************

GROUP THREE:

Sense 4
strike, hit -- (make a strategic, offensive, assault against an enemy, 
opponent, or a target; "The Germans struck Poland on Sept. 1, 1939"; "We must 
strike the enemy's oil fields"; "in the fifth inning, the Giants struck, 
sending three runners home to win the game 5 to 2")
       => attack, assail -- (launch an attack or assault on; begin hostilities 
with, as in warfare; "Hitler attacked Poland on September 1, 1939 and started 
World War II"; "Serbian forces assailed Bosnian towns all week")

Sense 6
hit, strike -- (affect or afflict suddenly, usually adversely; "We were hit by 
really bad weather"; "He was stricken with cancer when he was still a 
teenager"; "The earthquake struck at midnight")
       => affect, impact, bear upon, bear on, touch on, touch -- (have an 
effect upon; "Will the new rules affect me?")

*********************************************************

GROUP FOUR:

Sense 9
come to, strike -- (attain; "The horse finally struck a pace")
       => achieve, accomplish, attain, reach -- (to gain with effort: "she 
achieved her goal despite setbacks.")

Sense 16
assume, take, strike, take up -- (occupy or take on, as of a position or 
posture; "He assumes the lotus position"; "She took her seat on the stage"; We 
took our seats in the orchestra"; "She took up her position behind the tree"; 
"strike a pose")

**********************************************************

GROUP FIVE:

Sense 11
strike -- (cause to form between electrodes of an arc lamp; "strike an arc")
       => shape, form -- (cause to shape or form; "shape a bun"; "shape a ball 
from the dough")

Sense 13
strike -- (produce by ignition or a blow; "strike fire from the flintstone"; 
"strike a match")
       => make, create -- (make or cause to be or to become; "make a mess in 
one's office"; "create a furor")

*************************************************************

GROUP SIX:

Sense 12
fall upon, strike, come upon, light upon, chance upon, come across, chance on, 
happen upon, attain, discover -- (find unexpectedly: "the archeologists chanced
upon an old tomb"; "she struck a goldmine"; "The hikers finally struck the main
path to the lake")
       => find, regain -- (come upon after searching; find the location of 
something that was missed or lost; "Did you find your glasses?" "I cannot find 
my gloves!")

Sense 20
strike -- (arrive at after reckoning, deliberating, and weighing; "strike a 
balance"; "strike a bargain")
       => solve, work out, figure out, puzzle out, lick, work -- (find the 
solution to (a problem or question):"did you solve the problem?"; understand 
the meaning of; "did you get it?"; "Did you get my meaning?"; "He could not 
work the math problem")

**************************************************************

Sense 5
strike -- (indicate (a certain time) by striking; "The clock struck midnight"; 
"Just when I entered, the clock struck")
       => read, register, show, record -- (indicate a certain reading; of 
gauges and instruments; "The thermometer showed thirteen degrees below zero"; 
"The gauge read `empty'")

***************************************************************

Sense 7
strike, walk out -- (stop work in order to press demands; "The auto workers are
striking for higher wages"; "The employees walked out when their demand for 
better benefits was not met")
       => protest, resist, dissent -- (fight back, also metaphorically: "His 
body protested against the harsh training")

****************************************************************

Sense 10
strike, hit -- (produce by manipulating keys or strings of musical instruments,
also metaphorically; "The pianist strikes a middle C"; "strike `z' on the 
keyboard"; "her comments struck a sour note")
       => touch -- (make physical contact with, come in contact with; "Touch 
the stone for good luck"; "She never touched her husband")

*****************************************************************

Sense 14
strike, expunge, excise -- (remove by erasing or crossing out; "Please strike 
this remark from the record")
       => delete, cancel -- (remove or make invisible; "Please delete my name 
from your list")

******************************************************************

Sense 17
mint, coin, strike -- (form by stamping, punching, or printing; "strike coins";
"strike a medal")
       => create from raw material, create from raw stuff -- (make from 
scratch)

********************************************************************

Sense 18
strickle, strike -- (smooth with a strickle; "strickle the grain in the 
measure")
       => level, even out, even -- (make level or straight; "level the ground")

********************************************************************

NOTES:

I found "strike" to be a fairly difficult verb to group on two counts: first 
because many of the senses are so domain-specific that I am unsure of their 
meaning and hence am uncertain of my abilities to group them reliably, and 
second because many of the senses seem similar in a way that is hard to 
elucidate; therefore the justification of these groups is more difficult than 
that of the other verbs I have grouped thus far.

Upon inspection, the major criterion used for grouping "strike" appears to be 
(1) and (4) and a bit of (6).

GROUP ONE.  The members in this group all deal with some sort of  physical 
contact.  This contact may be more or less accidental (sense 1), it may be 
volitional and involve a body part, usually the hand, of the striker (sense 2),
it may refer to light and therefore be somewhat metaphorical (sense 8), or it 
may involve not merely physical contact but piercing (sense 19).

GROUP TWO.  This pair of senses is cognitive in nature.  The subject is either 
an emotional or cognitive response (sense 3) or a sudden experience of an 
essentially internal nature (sense 15), and the direct object is the 
experiencer.

GROUP THREE.  This category includes senses referring to adversaries.  The 
adversary is the subject and may be either volitionary (sense 4) or 
involitionary (sense 6), and the object is the experiencer.

GROUP FOUR.  This group is more tenuous than the first three because one of the
senses has a somewhat vague gloss.  The subject here is assuming some sort of 
activity (sense 9) or physical posture (sense 16), with the resulting 
conditions as the direct object.

GROUP FIVE.  I am very hesitant about this group, which was already in WordNet.
My hestitation stems from my uncertainty as to the meaning of one of the 
senses; I cannot judge whether or not I would agree with the grouping because I
do not know the concept.  I am equally reluctant to dissolve the group, 
however, for the same reasons.  It appears that some sort of electromagnetic 
response is generated by the subject, involving electrodes in the case about 
which I am unclear (sense 11).  The other sense (sense 13) refers to the 
lighting of a match or related item.

GROUP SIX.  I am also somewhat hesitant about this group.  These two senses 
seem related to me, but I am uncertain as to whether they should really form a 
group or not.  They both seem to refer to arriving at a new development, either
accidentally (sense 12), in which case the discovery may or may not be a 
concrete item, or as the result of deliberations, calculations, or negotiations
of some sort (sense 20).

SINGLETONS.  Six senses have been left ungrouped because of their domain 
specificity and the peculiar syntax and argument selections that accompany this
specificity.  This was the case with clocks (sense 5), disgruntled employees 
(sense 7), musical notes (sense 10), deletion (sense 14), minting (sense 17), 
and something about strickles (sense 18).

One could probably make a case for including some of the singleton senses with 
the physical contact group, for instance, but because of the peculiarities of 
their syntax I have chosen to keep them separate.





