Train

************************************************

GROUP ONE:

Sense 1
train, develop, prepare, educate -- (create by training and teaching; "The old 
master is training world-class violinists; "we develop the leaders for the 
future")
       => teach, learn, instruct -- (impart skills or knowledge to; "I taught 
them French"; "He instructed me in building a boat")

Sense 5
educate, school, train, cultivate, civilize, civilise -- (train to be 
discriminative; as of taste or judgment; "Cultivate your musical taste"; 
"Train your tastebuds"; "She is well schooled in poetry")
       => polish, refine, fine-tune, down -- (improve or perfect by pruning or 
polishing; "refine one's style of writing")

****************************************************

GROUP TWO: 

Sense 2
train, prepare -- (undergo training or instruction in preparation for a 
particular role, function, or profession; "She is training to be a teacher"; 
"He trained as a legal aid")
       => learn, study, read, take -- (be a student of a certain subject; "She 
is reading for the bar exam")

Sense 8
train -- (exercise in order to prepare for an event or competition; "She is 
training for the Olympics")
       => exercise, work out -- (do physical exercise; "She works out in the 
gym every day")

******************************************************

GROUP THREE:

Sense 3
discipline, train, check, condition -- (train by instruction and practice; esp.
to teach self-control; "Parents must discipline their children"; "Is this dog 
trained?")
       => develop, make grow -- (cause to grow and differentiate in ways 
conforming to its natural development; "The perfect climate here develops the
grain"; "He developed a new kind of apple")

Sense 4
prepare, groom, train -- (prepare (someone) for a future role or function; "He 
is grooming his son to become his successor"; "The prince was prepared to 
become King one day"; "They trained him to be a warrior")
       => educate -- (give an education to; "We must educate our youngsters 
better")

Sense 7
coach, train -- (teach and supervise (someone); act as a trainer or coach (to),
as in sports; "He is training our Olympic team"; "She is coaching the crew")
       => teach, learn, instruct -- (impart skills or knowledge to; "I taught 
them French"; "He instructed me in building a boat")

Sense 9
train -- (train to grow in a certain way by tying and pruning it; "train the 
vine")
       => control, hold in, hold, contain, check, curb, moderate -- (lessen the
intensity of; temper; hold in restraint; hold or keep within limits; "moderate 
your alcohol intake" "hold your tongue"; "hold your temper"; "control your 
anger")

********************************************************

Sense 6
aim, take, train, take aim, direct -- (aim or direct at; as of blows, weapons, 
or objects such as photographic equipment; "Please don't aim at your little 
brother!" "He trained his gun on the burglar"; "Don't train your camera on the 
women"; "Take a swipe at one's opponent")
       => position -- (cause to be in an appropriate place, state, or relation)

********************************************************

Sense 10
train, rail -- (travel by rail or train; "They railed from Rome to Venice"; 
"She trained to Hamburg")
       => ride -- (be carried or travel on or in a vehicle; "I ride to work in 
a bus"; "He rides the subway downtown every day")

**********************************************************

Sense 11
trail, train -- (drag loosely along a surface; allow to sweep the ground; "The 
toddler was trailing his pants")
       => drag -- (pull, as against a resistance; "The sleigh was drawn by four
reindeer"; "These worries were dragging at him")

***********************************************************

NOTES:

"Train" posed a peculiar challenge because I could think of several different 
ways to group it that to me seemed more or less equally acceptable.  I have 
chosen this one because it seems the most balanced.  It uses a combination of 
(1), (4), (5), and (6).

GROUP ONE.  The members of this group all take a sort of result as their direct
object.  The "result" can either be a human who has become a particular kind of
person as a result of his training (sense 1), or it can be a trait that a 
person has assiduously developed in himself (sense 5).  There is a sort of 
cultivation here; also, the training is very specific to a particular capacity,
role, or function.

GROUP TWO.  Intransitive senses are clustered in this group.  The subject is 
the person undergoing the training, which may be general (sense 2) or specific 
to the realm of athletic competition (sense 8).

GROUP THREE.  I have chosen to separate the senses in this group from those of 
the first group based on the relationship between subject and object.  The 
object in the first group is being trained for something specific.  Here that 
need not be the case; although the domain in which the training occurs may in 
fact BE specific, the outcome of the training will not be someone who will 
fulfill a particular function.  The training here is either that of general 
instruction (sense 3), grooming for a role (sense 4), or acting as an athletic 
coach (sense 7).  The inclusion of sense 4 in this group rather than the first 
group may be controversial.  I chose to include sense 4 here because it can 
take a phrasal object rather than a direct object, and because training someone
"TO BE a leader" does differ from "training a leader," (in my mind if in no one
else's).

SENSE 9.  Sense 9 refers to training a vine to grow in a certain manner.  I 
thought of including it in the third group, but decided that its specificity 
argued against its inclusion.

OTHER SINGLETONS.  The remaining three senses are very distinct from the others
and including them in one of the groups was simply not an option at all.  These
are the senses involving aiming (sense 6), traveling on a train (sense 10), and
dragging something (sense 11).
