Treat

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
treat, handle, do by -- (interact in a certain way; "Do right by her"; "Treat 
him with caution, please"; "Handle the press reporters gently")

Sense 8
treat -- (regard or consider in a specific way; "I treated his advances as a 
joke")

************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 5
treat -- (provide with a gift or entertainment; "Grandmother always treated us 
to the circus"; "I like to treat myself to a day at a spa when I am depressed")

Sense 6
regale, treat -- (provide with choice or abundant food or drink; "Don't worry 
about the expensive wine--I'm treating"; "She treated her houseguests with good
food every night")

***************************************************

Sense 4
cover, treat, handle, plow, deal, address -- (deal with verbally or in some 
form of artistic expression; "This book deals with incest"; "The course covered
all of Western Civilization"; "The new book treats the history of China")

***************************************************

Sense 2
process, treat -- (subject to a process or treatment, with the aim of readying 
for some purpose, improving, or remedying a condition; "process cheese"; 
"process hair"; "treat the water so it can be drunk"; "treat the lawn with 
chemicals" ; "treat an oil spill")

***************************************************

Sense 3
treat, care for -- (provide treatment for; "The doctor treated my broken leg"; 
"The nurses cared for the bomb victims"; "The patient must be treated right 
away or she will die"; "Treat the infection with antibiotics")

***************************************************

Sense 7
treat -- (engage in negotiations in order to reach an agreement; "they had to 
treat with the King")

***************************************************

NOTES:

I did this grouping independently of WordNet, which is now my standard modus 
operandi, and yet the judgements I made are identical with the grouping in 
WordNet.  This is the exact opposite result as for "match."  I think this is 
very interesting.

GROUP ONE.  The unifying feature of the three senses included in this group is 
the idea of interaction.  The first sense is the most general, specifying for 
general ways of interacting with someone or something (sense 1).  The other 
senses are somewhat more specific: one refers to verbal or artistic 
interaction, as with a topic (sense 4), and the other has a mental component 
and the idea of formulating judgements (sense 8).

GROUP TWO.  The "entertainment" senses of "treat" both belong to this group.  
The two senses are quite similar; the difference seems to be that in the first 
sense, the treat can be any kind of gift or special occasion 9sense 5), whereas
the second seems to be restricted to food (sense 6), and in addition has an 
intransitive variant with the idea of "picking up the entire tab at a 
restaurant."

THE UNGROUP.  I am not making a group of sense 2 and sense 3 because I think 
they cover two different domains, but I would like to acknowledge that there 
are some similarities between them.  Sense 2 is the chemical process and sense 
3 is the medical doctoring.  They are more similar to each other than they are 
to the rest of the set, but I do not advocate them as a group and in fact would
argue stringently against such an action.

OTHER.  The remaining sense is sense 7, the negotiation sense, which is 
definitely in a class by itself.