Turn

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
turn -- (change orientation or direction, also in the abstract sense; "Turn 
towards me"; "The mugger turned and fled before I could see his face"; "She 
turned from herself and learned to listen to others' needs")
       => move -- (move so as to change position, as of a body part 
(nontranslational motion): "He moved his hand slightly to the right")

Sense 4
turn -- (cause to move around or rotate; "turn a key")
       => move, displace -- (cause to move, both in a concrete and in an 
abstract sense; "Move those boxes into the corner, please"; "I'm moving my 
money to another bank"; "The director moved more responsibilities onto his new 
assistant")
       => change -- (undergo a change; become different in essence; losing 
one's or its original nature; "She changed completely as she grew older"; "The 
weather changed last night")

Sense 8
turn -- (move around an axis or a center; "The wheels are turning")
       => move -- (move so as to change position, as of a body part 
(nontranslational motion): "He moved his hand slightly to the right")

Sense 20
turn -- (cause to move along an axis or into a new direction; "turn your face 
to the wall"; "turn the car around"; "turn your dance partner around")
       => move, displace -- (cause to move, both in a concrete and in an 
abstract sense; "Move those boxes into the corner, please"; "I'm moving my 
money to another bank"; "The director moved more responsibilities onto his new 
assistant")

*****************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 2
become, turn -- (undergo a change or development: "The water turned into ice"; 
"Her former friend became her worst enemy"; "He turned traitor")
       => transform, transmute -- (change in outward structure or looks; "He 
transformed into a monster")

Sense 3
change state, turn -- (undergo a transformation or a change of position or 
action; "We turned from Socialism to Capitalism"; "The people turned against 
the President when he stole the election")
       => change -- (undergo a change; become different in essence; losing 
one's or its original nature; "She changed completely as she grew older"; "The 
weather changed last night")

Sense 5
turn, grow -- (pass into a condition gradually, take on a specific property or 
attribute; become;"The weather turned nasty"; "She grew angry"; "The teacher 
became impatient")
       => change -- (undergo a change; become different in essence; losing 
one's or its original nature; "She changed completely as she grew older"; "The 
weather changed last night")

Sense 10
change by reversal, turn, reverse -- (change to the contrary; "The trend was 
reversed"; "the tides turned against him"; "public opinion turned when it was 
revealed that the president had an affair with a White House intern")
       => change -- (undergo a change; become different in essence; losing 
one's or its original nature; "She changed completely as she grew older"; "The 
weather changed last night")

Sense 12
turn -- (change color, as of leaves in the Fall; "In Vermont, the leaves turn 
early")
       => turn, grow -- (pass into a condition gradually, take on a specific 
property or attribute; become;"The weather turned nasty"; "She grew angry"; "
The teacher became impatient")
       => discolor, discolour, colour, color -- (change color, often in an 
undesired manner; "The shirts discolored")

Sense 13
turn -- (cause to change or turn into something different;assume new 
characteristics; "The princess turned the frog into a prince by kissing him"; 
"The alchemists tried to turn lead into gold")
       => change, alter -- (cause to change; make different; cause a 
transformation; "The advent of the automobile may have altered the growth 
pattern of the city"; "The discussion has changed my thinking about the issue")

Sense 17
sour, turn, ferment, work -- (go sour or spoil; "The milk has soured"; "The 
wine worked"; "The cream has turned--we have to throw it out")
       => change state, turn -- (undergo a transformation or a change of 
position or action; "We turned from Socialism to Capitalism"; "The people 
turned against the President when he stole the election")

********************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 16
turn -- (shape by rotating on a lathe or cutting device or a wheel; "turn the 
legs of the table"; "turn the clay on the wheel")
       => form -- (give shape to; "form the clay into a head")

Sense 18
turn -- (accomplish by rotating; "turn a somersault"; "turn cartwheels")
       => do, perform -- (get (something) done; "I did my job")

**********************************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 21
turn -- (channel one's attention, interest, thought, or attention toward or 
away from something; "The pedophile turned to boys for satisfaction"; "people 
turn to mysticism at the turn of a millenium")
       => send, direct -- (cause to go somewhere; "The explosion sent the car 
flying in the air"; "She sent her children to camp"; "He directed all his 
energies into his dissertation")

Sense 24
turn -- (direct at someone; "She turned a smile on me"; "They turned their 
flashlights on the car")
       => aim, take, train, take aim, direct -- (aim or direct at; as of blows,
weapons, or objects such as photographic equipment; "Please don't aim at your 
little brother!" "He trained his gun on the burglar"; "Don't train your camera 
on the women"; "Take a swipe at one's opponent")

Sense 25
call on, turn -- (have recourse to or make an appeal or request for help or 
information to; "She called on her Representative to help her"; "She turned to 
her relatives for help")
       => appeal -- (request earnestly (something from somebody); "appeal to 
somebody for help")

*************************************************************

Sense 6
turn -- (to send or let go; "They turned away the crowd at the gate of the 
governor's mansion")
       => send, direct -- (cause to go somewhere; "The explosion sent the car 
flying in the air"; "She sent her children to camp"; "He directed all his 
energies into his dissertation")

**************************************************************

Sense 7
turn, move around -- (pass to the other side of; "turn the corner"; "move 
around the obstacle")
       => travel, go, move, locomote -- (change location; move, travel, or 
proceed; "How fast does your new car go?" "We travelled from Rome to Naples by 
bus"; "The policemen went from door to door looking for the suspect";"The 
soldiers moved towards the city in an attempt to take it before night fell")

**************************************************************

Sense 9
turn, turn over -- (cause to move around a centre so as to show another side
of; "turn a page of a book")
       => move, displace -- (cause to move, both in a concrete and in an 
abstract sense; "Move those boxes into the corner, please"; "I'm moving my 
money to another bank"; "The director moved more responsibilities onto his new
assistant")

***************************************************************

Sense 11
plow, plough, turn -- (to break and turn over earth esp. with a plow; "Farmer 
Jones plowed his east field last week"; "turn the earth in the Spring")
       => till -- (work land as by ploughing, harrowing, and manuring, in order
to make it ready for cultivation; "till the soil")

****************************************************************

Sense 14
turn, release -- (let (something) fall or spill a container; "turn the flour 
onto a plate")
       => transmit, transfer, transport, channel, channelize -- (send from one 
person or place to another; "transmit a message")

*****************************************************************

Sense 15
twist, sprain, wrench, turn, wrick, rick -- (twist suddenly so as to sprain; 
"wrench one's ankle"; "The wrestler twisted his shoulder"; "the hikers sprained
their ankles when they fell"; "I turned my ankle and couldn't walk for several 
days")
       => injure, wound -- (cause injuries or bodily harm to)

*******************************************************************

Sense 19
turn -- (get by buying and selling; "the company turned a good profit after a 
year")
       => get, acquire -- (come into the possession of something concrete or 
abstract; "She got a lot of paintings from her uncle"; "They acquired a new 
pet"; "Get your results the next day"; "Get permission to take a few days off 
from work")

*******************************************************************

Sense 22
bend, deform, twist, turn -- (cause to assume a crooked or angular form; "bend 
the rod"; "twist the dough into a braid"; "the strong man could turn an iron 
bar")
       => change shape, change form, deform -- (assume a different shape or 
form)

*******************************************************************

Sense 23
turn -- (alter the functioning or setting of; "turn the dial to 10"; "turn the 
heat down")
       => operate, control -- (handle and cause to function; "do not operate 
machinery after imbibing alcohol"; "control the lever")

******************************************************************

Sense 26
turn -- (become officially one year older; "She is turning 50 this year")
       => age, get on, mature, maturate -- (grow old or older; "She aged 
gracefully"; "we age every day--what a depressing thought!")

*******************************************************************

NOTES:

"Turn" turned out a little interestingly because I generated four groups, some 
fairly large, and then ended up with about ten senses that I didn't feel 
comfortable putting into any group.  (Perhaps I am being too picky and someone 
else could do a better job.)

GROUP ONE.  In this group I placed senses that had to do with rotation: 
rotating one's orientation, which also allows for metaphor (sense 1), causing 
something else to rotate (sense 4), intransitive rotation around an axis (sense
8), or causing something else to move around an axis (sense 20).

GROUP TWO.  I put most of the change of state "turns" into this class: simple 
changes of state (sense 2), changes of ideological position (sense 3), 
gradually acquiring some property (sense 5), reversing (sense 10), changing 
colour (sense 12), causative transformations (sense 13), and milk souring 
(sense 17).

GROUP THREE.  This group involves an accomplishment by rotation, either 
regarding shaping (sense 16) or the more idiomatic "cartwheel" sense (sense 
18).

GROUP FOUR.  These three senses have to do with a change in focus or direction.
This includes focus of interest or attention (sense 21), direction of 
non-physical things (sense 24), and attempts for help (sense 25).

OTHERS.  Left ungrouped: sending people away (sense 6), changing one's path 
(sense 7), showing another side of something (sense 9), plowing the earth 
(sense 11), spilling something (sense 14), spraining ankles and the like 
(sense 15), financial profits (sense 19), twisting things up (sense 22), 
altering settings (sense 23), and having birthdays (sense 26).
