Use

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
use, utilize, utilise, apply, employ -- (put into service; make work or employ 
(something) for a particular purpose or for its inherent or natural purpose: 
"use your head!"; "we only use Spanish at home"; "I can't make use of this 
tool"; "Apply a magnetic field here"; "This thinking was applied to many 
projects"; "How do you utilize this tool?"; "I apply this rule to get good 
results"; "use the plastic bags to store the food"; "He doesn't know how to use
a computer")

Sense 3
use -- (seek or achieve an end by using to one's advantage; "She uses her 
influential friends to get jobs"; "The president's wife used her good 
connections")

Sense 5
practice, apply, use -- (avail oneself to; "apply a principle"; "practice a 
religion"; "use care when going down the stairs"; "use your common sense"; 
"practice non-violent resistance")

**************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 2
use -- (take or consume (regularly); "She uses drugs rarely")

Sense 4
use, expend -- (use up, consume fully; " The legislature expended its time on 
school questions.")

**************************************************

Sense 6
use -- (habitually do something (use only in the past tense); "She used to call
her mother every week but now she calls only occasionally"; "I used to get sick
when I ate in that dining hall"; "They used to vacation in the Bahamas")

**************************************************

NOTES:

This was another difficult verb to group, possibly even more difficult than 
"match" (and thankfully less polysemous!).  The problem with grouping "use" -- 
and I remember encountering this in my tagging -- is that the various senses of
"use" sort of shade off into one another, so that the boundaries are fuzzy 
even for verbs.  In fact, of all the verbs I tagged, this one is the murkiest. 
Ultimately, these groups are almost artificial.  This is true for any grouping 
assignment really, but in this case the artifice is worn on the sleeve.

GROUP ONE. If the sense seemed to be fairly explicit about the existence of an 
inherent function or purpose, I grouped it here.  This ended up to be the 
general all-purpose when-in-doubt-tag-to-this-sense sense (that would be sense 
1), as well as the specific exploitative sense where the subject is using the 
direct object to further his own advantage (sense 3) and the sense which refers
to using more abstract sorts of principles (sense 5).

GROUP TWO.  If the sense seemed to imply that the thing being used was a 
commodity, and that it was being consumed, I put it here.  This ended up to be 
the drug addict sense (sense 2) and the deplete sense (sense 5).

SENSE 6.  I love sense 6.  Since it is really only an aspectual marker, you 
can't group it with anything, and no matter how lumpy you might be, you can't 
argue that it should be grouped anywhere.