Wander

GROUP ONE:

Sense 1
wander, swan, stray, tramp, roam, cast, ramble, rove, range, drift, vagabond --
(move about aimlessly or without any destination, often in search of food or 
employment; "The gypsies roamed the woods"; "roving vagabonds"; "the wandering 
Jew"; "The cattle roam across the prairie"; "the laborers drift from one town 
to the next")
       => travel, go, move, locomote -- (change location; move, travel, or 
proceed; "How fast does your new car go?" "We travelled from Rome to Naples by 
bus"; "The policemen went from door to door looking for the suspect";"The 
soldiers moved towards the city in an attempt to take it before night fell")

Sense 3
wander -- (go via an indirect route or at no set pace; "After dinner, we 
wandered into town")
       => proceed, go forward, continue -- (move ahead; travel onward; "We 
proceeded towards Washington"; "She continued in the direction of the hills"; 
can also be used in the temporal sense: "We are moving ahead in time now")

Sense 4
weave, wind, thread, meander, wander -- (to move or cause to move in a sinuous,
spiral, or circular course; "the river winds through the hills"; "the path 
meanders through the vineyards"; "sometimes, the gout wanders through the 
entire body")
       => travel, go, move, locomote -- (change location; move, travel, or 
proceed; "How fast does your new car go?" "We travelled from Rome to Naples by 
bus"; "The policemen went from door to door looking for the suspect";"The 
soldiers moved towards the city in an attempt to take it before night fell")

***********************************************

Sense 2
cheat on, cheat, cuckold, betray, wander -- (be sexually unfaithful to one's 
partner in marriage; "She cheats on her husband"; "Might her husband be 
wandering?")
       => deceive, lead on, delude, cozen -- (be false to; be dishonest with)

***********************************************

Sense 5
digress, stray, divagate, wander -- (lose clarity or turn aside esp. from the 
main subject of attention or course of argument in writing, thinking, or 
speaking; "She always digresses when telling a story"; "her mind wanders"; 
"Don't digress when you give a lecture")
       => tell -- (let something be known; "Tell them that you will be late")

***********************************************

NOTES:  

I have left the groupings found in WordNet intact, because I think that they 
are correct.  The single group contains the three senses which relate to 
physical or spatial movement: looking for sustenance (sense 1), strolling about
without direction (sense 3), or having the property of being laid out in a path
that resembles an aimless journey (sense 4).  Of the remaining two senses, both
are distinct: sense 2 refers to emotional wandering and sense 5 to verbal 
wandering, and both seem to fall into their own unique category.
