Wash

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
wash, rinse -- (clean with some chemical process)

Sense 2
wash, lave -- (cleanse (one's body) with soap and water)

Sense 3
wash, launder -- (cleanse with a cleaning agent, such as soap, and water; "Wash
the towels, please!")

Sense 5
wash -- (be capable of being washed; "Does this material wash?")

Sense 12
wash -- (to cleanse (itself or another animal) by licking, as of a cat; "The 
cat washes several times a day")

************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 4
wash -- (move by or as if by water; "The swollen river washed away the 
footbridge")

Sense 10
wash -- (form by erosion: "The river washed a ravine into the mountainside")

************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 7
wash -- (separate dirt or gravel from (precious minerals))

Sense 9
wash, wash out, wash off, wash away -- (remove by the application of water or 
other liquid and soap or some other cleaning agent: "he washed the dirt from 
his coat"; "The nurse washed away the blood"; "Can you wash away the spots on 
the windows?" "he managed to wash out the stains")

************************************************

Sense 6
wash -- (admit to testing or proof; "This silly excuse won't wash in traffic 
court")

************************************************

Sense 8
wash -- (apply a thin coating of paint, metal, etc., to)

************************************************

Sense 11
moisten, wash, dampen -- (make moist; "The dew moistened the meadows")

************************************************

Sense 12
wash -- (to cleanse (itself or another animal) by licking, as of a cat; "The 
cat washes several times a day")

************************************************

NOTES:

My analysis of "wash" is very similar to the one put forth in WordNet, but not 
identical.  I did make a change to my original formulation after looking at the
WordNet version -- I had originally included sense 2 in Group One and left 
sense 12 by itself, and then decided upon viewing WordNet that this was the 
better choice.  However, my version is less lumped than WordNet; I did not 
match the two.  This is probably the death knell for this version, but so be 
it: I support my analysis.

GROUP ONE.  This group shares the sense of cleaning something, not a body part,
with some sort of cleaning agent.  On my analysis, there should be three senses
in this group: the general sense of launder (sense 1), the general sense of 
washing something with soap and water (sense 3), and the middle construction 
denoting whether the washed item is actually capable of being thus treated 
(sense 5).  I recall having difficulty deciding between senses 1 and 3 when I 
was tagging "wash."

GROUP TWO.  The difference between this group and the first group is that in 
this group, what one is washing is a body part, typically one's own; these uses
can be intransitive.  There are two senses in this category, one involving 
humans and soap (sense 2), and the other involving cats and tongues (sense 12).
I had originally placed sense 2 in the first group and left sense 12 alone, 
because of the manner in which the cleansing took place: cats and tongues do 
not fit with humans and soap, but humans and soap can fit with humans, towels 
and soap.  Upon seeing WordNet, I changed my mind, because the basic idea is 
the same.  I could revert back to my former position, but would NOT support 
placing sense 12 in with the launder senses.  That is why I prefer this version
to my original: in this case you have the senses that express the idea of 
reflexive washing together and the agentive washing together, whereas before it
was the idea of soap versus the idea of tongues.

GROUP THREE.  This group is about the movement of something by water, or by 
something that can be metaphorically extended from the idea of movement by 
water.  This encompasses two senses, one for general transportation by water 
(sense 4) and the other for erosion (sense 10).

NEAR-FITS.  In WordNet, the group corresponding to my Group One is larger by 
two senses: the separation of gravel and dirt from gems (sense 7) and the 
removal of something by water (sense 9).  I have chosen to leave these two 
senses out of a group.

I think that sense 7 is too domain-specific to fit with the others.  Also, I 
do not have an example sentence for sense 7 and therefore am uncertain what its
syntax would be.  Finally, sense 7 does not involve soap, and the canonical 
motion associated with it is probably not the same as the others in that group.
So sense 7 should be excluded from the first group.

Sense 9 should be excluded from the first group also.  It is not expressing the
same concept as the other three senses: here we are removing something with 
water, rather than making something clean by using water and some other 
cleaning agent.  Sense 9 takes a direct object of dirt, not of the dirty.  The 
action is similar, yes, but the concept itself is actually closer to sense 4 
than to sense 1 or 3 in my mind.

I would not group senses 7 and 9 with each other because they are too different
and possibly do not have the same syntax.

OTHERS.  Three other senses were also left isolated.  The first is the idea of 
standing up to testing or proof (sense 6), the second applying a thin coating 
of some kind (sense 8), and the third to making something damp (sense 11).  
These all seem very distinct.