Work

GROUP ONE

Sense 1
work -- (exert oneself by doing mental or physical work for a purpose or out of
necessity; "I will work hard to improve my grades"; "she worked hard for better
living conditions for the poor")

Sense 2
work, do work -- (be employed; "Is your husband working again?" "My wife never 
worked"; "Do you want to work after the age of 60?" "She never did any work 
because she inherited a lot of money"; "She works as a waitress to put herself 
through college")

Sense 6
exercise, work, work out -- (give a work-out to: "Some parents exercise their 
infants"; "My personal trainer works me hard"; "work one's muscles")

Sense 8
work -- (operate in a certain place, area, or specialty; "She works the night 
clubs"; "The salesman works the Midwest"; "This artist works mostly in 
acrylics")

Sense 12
work, put to work -- (cause to work; "he is working his servants hard")

****************************************************

GROUP TWO

Sense 3
work, act -- (have an effect or outcome; often the one desired or expected; 
"The voting process doesn't work as well as people thought"; "How does your 
idea work in practice?"; "This method doesn't work"; "The breaks of my new car 
act quickly"; "The medicine works only if you take it with a lot of water")

Sense 11
bring, work, play, wreak, make for -- (cause to happen or to occur as a 
consequence; "I cannot work a miracle" "wreak havoc"; "bring comments"; "play a
joke"; "The rain brought relief to the drought-stricken area")

****************************************************

GROUP THREE

Sense 4
function, work, operate, go, run -- (perform as expected when applied; "The 
washing machine won't go unless it's plugged in"; "Does this old car still run 
well?"; "This old radio doesn't work anymore")

Sense 16
work -- (operate in or through; "Work the phones")

Sense 17
work -- (cause to operate or function; "This pilot works the controls"; "Can 
you work an electric drill?")

****************************************************

GROUP FOUR

Sense 5
work, work on, process -- (shape, form, or improve a material; "work stone into
tools"; "process iron"; "work the metal")

Sense 14
work -- (behave in a certain way when handled; "This dough does not work 
easily"; "The soft metal works well")

Sense 20
shape, form, work, mold, mould, forge -- (make something, usually for a 
specific function; "She molded the riceballs carefully"; "Form cylinders from
the dough"; "shape a figure"; "Work the metal into a sword")

Sense 22
knead, work -- (make uniform; "knead dough"; "work the clay until it is soft")

****************************************************

GROUP FIVE

Sense 7
make, work -- (proceed along a path; "work one's way through the crowd"; "make 
one's way into the forest")

Sense 9
work -- (proceed towards a goal or along a path or through an activity; "work 
your way through every problem or task"; "She was working on her second martini
when the guests arrived"; "Start from the bottom and work towards the top")

Sense 21
work -- (move into or onto; "work the raisins into the dough"; "the student 
worked a few jokes into his presentation"; "work the body onto the flatbed 
truck")

Sense 24
solve, work out, figure out, puzzle out, lick, work -- (find the solution to 
(a problem or question):"did you solve the problem?"; understand the meaning 
of; "did you get it?"; "Did you get my meaning?"; "He could not work the math 
problem")

****************************************************

GROUP SIX

Sense 15
influence, act upon, work -- (have and exert influence or effect; "The artist's
work influenced the young painter"; "She worked on her friends to support the 
political candidate")

Sense 18
work -- (provoke or excite; "The rock musician worked the crowd of young girls 
into a frenzy")

Sense 19
work -- (gratify and charm, usually in order to influence; "the political 
candidate worked the crowds")

Sense 23
exploit, work -- (use to one's advantage; "He exploit the new taxation system";
"She knows how to work the system"; "he works his parents for sympathy")

****************************************************

GROUP SEVEN

Sense 25
ferment, work -- (cause to undergo fermentation; "We ferment the grapes for a 
very long time to achieve high alcohol content"; "The vintner worked the wine 
in big oak vats")

Sense 26
sour, turn, ferment, work -- (go sour or spoil; "The milk has soured"; "The 
wine worked"; "The cream has turned--we have to throw it out")

****************************************************

Sense 10
work -- (move in ran agitated manner; "His fingers worked with tension")

****************************************************

Sense 13
cultivate, crop, work -- (prepare for crops; "Work the soil"; "cultivate the 
land")

****************************************************

Sense 27
work -- (arrive at a certain condition through repeated motion; "The stitches 
of the hem worked loose after she wore the skirt many times")

****************************************************

NOTES:

Once again, I grouped "work" prior to looking at the extant WordNet groupings. 
Similar exercises in the past have run the gamut; once I agreed with WordNet in
every respect and another time I disagreed with WordNet in almost every 
respect.  "Work" fell somewhere in between: there were places where my analysis
matched and places where it diverged.  I made only one change to my analysis 
after looking at the WordNet version (moving one sense from one group to 
another).  On the whole, I think I would agree with the way I did this.

Because it is so polysemous -- twenty-seven senses in all -- "work" posed a bit
of a challenge simply because there were so many pages to shuffle.  It was also
more fun because of that.  On the whole, in fact, I think the more polysemous 
the verb, the more fun, because the senses vary greatly in domain and 
specification.  Verbs with fewer senses tend to fall into two categories, 
neither very fun: either they are actually homonyms, and don't allow grouping 
at all; or the distinctions between them are so fine that either you don't 
group them, or you have to group them into one group, or one big group with one
sense left over, etc.  Or you'll find that you have two obvious divisions and 
that is that.

GROUP ONE.  The largest of the groups, this group encompasses all types of 
exertion in varying degrees of specificity and syntax.  This includes, of 
course, the general sense of exertion (sense 1).  It also includes the general 
sense of employment (sense 2), because employment is essentially exertion for 
money.  Also in this group are the idea of giving someone exercise (sense 6), 
which is basically a causative sense of sense 1; a sense that specifies the 
area or medium in which someone works 9sense 8); and making someone work 
harder, which is sort of the causative sense of sense 2 (sense 12).

GROUP TWO.  This group refers to an expected outcome.  There are two senses 
here, the first intransitive, in which the outcome is successful or expected 
(sense 3), and the other transitive, in which the person causing the outcome is
the subject and the outcome is the direct object (sense 11).

GROUP THREE.  The notion here centres upon causing something else to perform 
its inherent function.  The senses of this group differ from those in the first
group in that they are inanimate (mostly) and the kind of work they are doing 
is usually either the purpose of their existence or very closely linked to the 
purpose of their existence.  The most basic sense of this group is a transitive
in which the agent causes the direct object to perform its function (sense 4). 
Another sense refers to using the object to operate (sense 16).  I had 
originally placed this in the first group, actually, until I saw WordNet, and 
then came to agree that this sense belongs here instead.  The third sense of 
the group has a sort of agent-cum-operator sense, in the agent is not just 
causing the object to function but is also involved in the process of operation
itself (sense 17).

GROUP FOUR.  At their core, these senses all refer to notions of creating 
something, or at least shaping it.  They include changing a material into 
something with a function (sense 5); a middle sense expressing the manner in 
which something handles when it is being shaped (sense 14); making something 
for a specific function (sense 20); and shaping something into a uniform 
substance (sense 22).

GROUP FIVE.  This is the category for senses which denote some sort of process.
The first sense refers to making one's way along a path of some kind (sense 7).
The second is similar, a sort of metaphorical extension, in which there is a 
sense of a goal at the end and the "path" could be an activity (sense 9).  The 
final sense of the group refers to finding the solution to a problem (sense 
24), and I have included it here for two reasons: first because of the salient 
nature of the goal, and second because many such problems involve a specified 
series of steps -- logical deductions, for example.

GROUP SIX.  Influence and manipulation lie at the heart of this category, which
generally takes human arguments, where the subject exerts some sort of 
influence resulting in a certain state on the part of the patient.  The most 
general sense is simply one of influence, which can be volitionary (and 
possibly somewhat subversive) or not (sense 15).  The other three senses are 
much more specific: provocation or excitement (sense 18), charming someone, 
where the idea of influence is quite strong (sense 19), and exploitation (sense
23).

GROUP SEVEN.  This pair of senses refers to a natural process that results in 
a change of state by some substance.  One of the senses is causative and 
apparently used specifically for fermentation (sense 25); the other is 
intransitive and refers to something spoiling or going sour (sense 26).

OTHER.  Four senses were left without a group.  The first involves nervous 
movement (sense 10).  The second refers to the preparation of soil for crops 
(sense 13), which could possibly be included in the "shaping" group, but 
because it also implies a lot of exertion (therefore placing it in the first 
group on analogy of sense 8), I chose to set it apart.  Another sense has the 
idea of incorporate (sense 21), and in its physical meaning could also belong 
to the shaping group, but it has other extensions that make me inclined to 
leave it out also.  The last sense involves something arriving in a certain 
condition after repeated motion (sense 27).  I toyed with the idea of putting 
this sense in with the process senses, or with sense 10, and finally decided 
that it was kind of its own category.

I would like to note that some verbs like grouping and others do not.  "Work" 
is one of the former, and hence even the isolates have links to one or more 
groups.  I would consider any ideas about grouping the isolates of this 
particular verb.

